BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٢٥


٤ The recommended fast is the fasting of three days of every month. And it is
desirable to perform these days in the white days of every lunar month, which is
the ١٣", ١٤" and ١٥". They are named the white days at that time, because the
light of the moon is strongest and the brightest as Abu Dawud narrated[The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would order us to fast the three
white(days)of ١٣", ١٤" and ١٥". The Prophet said, "This is like keeping
perpetual fasts."!


tls yl(rx?


It is recommended to fast on the Mondays and Thursdays of each week. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The works of the servants are
presented(to Allah)on Monday and Thursday, so I like that when my works are
presented, I am observing fast].


Mea i Jy ploy Lab: fob oF Sy oe como pes


It is recommended to fast six days of the month of Shawwal, and it has been said
that these six days are to be fasted consecutively(immediately following Eid-al-
Fitr), though it has also been said that the six days can be fasted intermittently.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[He who observed the
fast of Ramadan and followed it with six(fasts)of Shawwal, it would be as if he
fasted perpetually].> Meaning, Allah multiples good by ten times, thus by fasting
thirty days of Ramadan it comes to three hundred, and fasting the six says of
Shawwal brings a reward of sixty days. Thus, fasting for thirty-six days equals to
fasting the entire year. There is some difference of opinion among the jurists
whether fasting for six days successively, immediately after Eid al-Fitr is superior
to fasting six days randomly throughout the month of Shawwal. Imam Shafi'i,
Ahmad and Abu Dawud hold the view as six consecutive days.


Pd Le ge platy Le ys pray ONS pA Sy SHrall ale oho ¢ pad ¢ HadL ale Je gly lb Fp po |S y
SLs att Sf amily pled! pail


It is recommended to fast any day which is established as being mentioned by the
Prophet and one which the sunna promises reward for, such as the fasting of
Dawud(Peace be upon him)in which he would alternate his days by fasting one
day and breaking the next. This is the best fasting and the most beloved to Allah
as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Fast one day and
break the other day. That is known as the fasting of Dawud and that is the best
fasting].'


aaah S mats MU WS ٥ ye gg asl,





" Abu Dawud ٢٤٤٣.

At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Fasting ٧٤٧.
> Muslim ١١٦٤.

* Muslim ١١٥٩.

