١٩٦ BOOK III: FUNERALS


cab fe SLaI! ٧
The Sunan Of The Funeral Prayer
ql yey
Its sunan are four;
coil shots ١,٩٥ CAN pais line pL! ols


١- It is sunna for the imam to stand near the chest of the deceased whether it is a
male or female; the reason being is that the chest is the place of the heart and the
light of Iman.!


Sas Sal ae ebtly

٢- After the first Allahu akbar, one is to recite the opening glorification(thane)and it is[Glory be to You, O Allah and Praise be to You, and Blessed is Your Name, and
Exalted is Your Majesty, and there is none to be served besides You]. Note; It is permissible
to recite the Fatiha with the intention of the opening glorification(thana). It is
reported that Ibn Abbas performed prayer over a deceased and recited the Fatiha
and said, "In order that you know it is from the sunna."" Imam Shafi'i held it as
obligatory. Hanafi jurists say that there is no problem for one who intended it as
recitation in order to remove oneself from the varying views of the scholars. Given
this, it has also been stated that the most correct view is that if one recites it with
the intention of recitation, then it is disliked, though not if one recites it with the
intention of the opening glorification."


Ast ay plang ae il fro I ae Jo TDL
٣- After the second Allahu akbar, it is sunna to recite the blessings on the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))and it is[O Allah! Shower Your Mercy upon
Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, as You showered Your Mercy upon
Ibrahim and the family of Ibrahim. O Allah! Shower Your blessings upon
Muhammad and the family of Muhammad as You showered Your blessings upon
Ibrahim and the family of Ibrahim. Behold You are Praiseworthy, Glorious].


Gals od ged ٣ Stl oles OL yo oct a)uate Vy SUI te ad oleally
ely ce ally aie yam hy al abl Ul ley ale dbl fro gil ite sles ce ge hem Le axey))Iyho Daly AN ope te Ns gilt gate(ES LURE spe adi yo ally htt y UL Lisl alte ang y J ٥(CW bie y pill lic oye otely cbt abtoly amy ٥ ce Lt ley jy abel oo Lat Waly oslo op Le


٤ After the third Allahu akbar, to supplicate for the deceased is sunna. This
supplication should not relate to anything other than the matters pertaining to the
hereafter. If however, one supplicates for the deceased with that, which is


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٣.
* Bukhari ١٣٣٥.
" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٣ and Nur al-Idah ١٨١.


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٩٧


transmitted from the Prophet, it is superior and more effective. And from these
supplications is what Auf Ibn Malik((God be pleased with him))learnt from the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)), which is[O Allah, forgive and have
mercy upon him, excuse him and pardon him, and make honourable his
reception. Expand his entry and cleanse him with water, snow and ice, and purify
him of sin as a white robe is purified of filth. Exchange his home for a better
home and his family for a better family and his spouse for a better spouse. Admit
him into the Garden; protect him from the punishment of the grave and the
torment of the fire]. And Auf Ibn Malik said(I wish I was that deceased person).


ily J lb ٣ cles no op dnl Jide dns


After the fourth Allahu akbar, the finishing salams are observed without
supplication, and this is the most evident opinion on the matter, though, some
scholars have permitted one to say, 'Our Lord! Give us good in this world and
good in the hereafter and save us from the torment of the fire'."


SI ٥ AS pe Gade aby Vy


The hands are not be raised(for the takbirs), except for the first one based on the
report of Ibn Abbas and Abu Hirairah that the Prophet during the observance of
a funeral prayer raised his hands for the first takbir, but not after that.' However,
many scholars choose to raise their hands for every takbir owing to a narration
that Ibn Umar observed it.'


JL Garrhe pics Sy ate | Lae pL AS gly


If the imam says 'Allahu akbar' a fifth time, the followers do not join him, rather
they wait for the finishing salams of the imam, and this is the opted view on the
matter.


If the deceased was insane or a young boy or girl(who had not reached puberty),
then one is not to supplicate forgiveness for them because they have committed no
sin, rather one should supplicate; O Allah, make them a source for our salvation; and
make him/her a source of reward and treasure for us; and render him/her an intercessor for us,
and one whose intercession is accepted.


; Muslin, at-Tirmidhi, and an-Nasai.
* Al-Bagarah ٢٠١.

* Darqutani ٢/٧٥[Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٤].
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٤.

