٢٧٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


The rules of Eid al-Adha are the same as Eid al-Fitr, with the exception that for Eid
al-Adha one is to delay eating until after the prayer, for the reason that it is the
recommended practice based on the report that The Prophet would not eat on the
day of Eid al-Adha until he returned upon which he ate from his sacrifice."
However, if one does eat before the prayer, it is not disliked. Other differences
are: that on the day of Eid alAdha one is to utter the ¢akbir aloud in the street
when leaving to the prayer-site and in the sermon of Eid al-Adha the imam is to
teach the people about the sacrifice, namely the slaughtering and who is required
to sacrifice and the time of sacrifice and the judgment of eating etc, and he also
informs them about the takbir of tashrig during the sermon for the reason that the
sermon was sanctioned for this instruction.


In addition, the ١١", ١٢ and ١٣° of Dhul-Hijjah are known as the days of tashriq
in which the meat of the sacrifice was dried in the sun, in order to preserve it. And
the days of nahr(Sacrifice)are the ١٠", ١١ and ١٢". However, the ١٠" is
specifically known as the day of nahr and the ١٣" is specifically known as the day
of tashrig. The ١١" and ١٢" are known as both the days of nahr and tashriq.
Moreover, the takbir of tashrig is the takbir that is said after the prayers beginning
from the fajr on the ٩" up to the end of the days of tashriq.


eLl ew JI be > ٥٣٥


The prayer of Eid al-Adha may also be delayed for three days with a valid excuse,
on the basis that these three days are the days of sacrifice. The prayer is valid
between the rising of the sun(a spears length or two)until just before mid-day for
three days. The prayer cannot be performed after this time.
trodes

If one tries to emulate those who are standing on Arafah, then it is not regarded
as anything. Indeed, such an act is unlawfully disliked[makruh tahrim]because it is
an innovation in religion and is offensive. Verily, the standing is an obligation in a
specified place, just as tawaf is a pious act in a specified place. It is therefore
unlawful to make fawaf around any mosque or any house excluding the ka'bah
imitating those at hajj. Our scholars held that whoever makes tawaf of a mosque
excluding the ka'bah, then disbelief[Kufr]is feared for that person. The same
applies to one who stands in a place resembling those who stand at Arafat.'


" Al Baihaqi ٣/٢٨٣ and Ahmad ٥/٣٥٢.
? Nur al-Idah ١٦٩.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٧٣


oF ope fey Shag Ge AS pS


The Ruli: The Takbirs Of Tashri
And Upon Whom It Is Wajib


Se does telam gal ٣,٨ JS Pip dl par Ie aban ye HAN Ses


It is wajib to commence the takbir of tashriq after the dawn on the day of Arafah(٩* Dhul Hijjah)and is to be ended after the 'asr prayer on the day of Eid al-Adha(١٠° Dhul Hijjah). It is to be pronounced once, straight after every obligatory prayer
which is performed in a recommended group prayer.' And the takbir is wajtb
upon the imam who resides in the city and his followers even if they are travellers,
slaves or females according to Abu Hanifa. However, the women are not to
pronounce the takbir aloud as this may lead to fitna(temptation).


Based on this view, it is not required of the one who prays alone, a traveller or
those who reside in villages outside the city. Equally, it is not required after
voluntary prayer, witr or janaza. With regard to the takbir being wajib upon a
group, the basis is the saying of Ibn Mas'ud(God be pleased with him)who said,
"The takbir in the days of tashriq is not upon one or two persons. The takbirs are
upon those who have prayed in a group." Also, the reason the utterance of the
takbirs has been judged as wajib is because Allah said[Remember Allah during
the appointed days].' Furthermore, Shafi'i maintains that the takbir is an
emphasised sunna |[sunna mu'akkada]and that it is not a requirement that the
takbir be joined to the finishing salam of prayer.'


O٥٢ ce pall nae Moly ٥ gl bln glo pee Wy coe ce be od Sie: VU,
Spal ale y Jor ٤١٩٦ ٦


Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said that the takbir is wajib straight after every
obligatory prayer upon anyone who prays the obligatory prayer, even if one prays
it alone, is a traveller, or resides in a small village. They maintained that this is
wajib until(after)the 'asr prayer of the fifth day starting from the day of Arafah.
And this is the adopted practice and the fatwa issued is in accordance with this.


" Note: this therefore excludes the female group prayer. That is, if a group of woman perform
the obligatory prayer amongst themselves(electing one of the females to lead them), then this
does not necessitate the takbir. However, if women performed the prayer being led by a male
imam, then they are to utter the takbir silently and not audibly. As for the imam and those with
him, they are required to utter it loudly. Moreover, it is necessary to join the takbir to the
finishing salam of prayer.

? Tabarani ١٢/٢٦٨.

> Quran ٢:٢٠٣.


* Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٥٢.

