BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٣٥


de ol Sh ٠,٥ J ١٣]St od
Verification Of The Moon If There Is No Obstruction In The Sk
SES ٢ phe clan aatl slang pally Olas J pclae aap ye be W Ule eS ٣S ١ IL,
cel dplyl


If there is no obstruction in the sky for Ramadan or Eid al-Fitr, then the testimony
of a large gathering is required. Abu Yusuf says fifty people are considered as
being a large gathering. However, the determination of a large gathering is
entrusted to the opinion of the imam(meaning, the imam will determine what a
large gathering is)and this is the correct view.


waa)JE Y drrareltty ill SMe» dy ٢٥ dolgry adall oi Lal"s


If the people begin Ramadan based on the testimony of a single person, and then
they complete thirty days of fasting and thereafter no one sees the moon of Eid al-
Fitr even though the sky is clear, it is not permitted for them to cease fasting(which is the view agreed upon in the Madhhab. This means that the person who
first witnessed the moon of Ramadan was mistaken, and that it was not Ramadan.
Hence, they are to fast this day).


Oban cach phy Ade of SL US ١٣]pleat Jo Gr GHH Vy « te Bolger O١٥ lo}ed ear pl tha ly
> Jl isale,


Scholars differed in that if Ramadan is established based on the witnessing of two
upright persons(and then thirty days are completed and yet no one sees the moon
for Eid al-Fitr even though the sky is clear); do they fast another day? Or do they
celebrate Eid al-Fitr? Some in the Madhhab maintain that they are to break their
fast and celebrate Eid as held in ad-Darayya, al-Khilasa and al-Bazaziyya.
However, others maintain that they are to remain fasting given that the moon was
not seen in a clear sky, which indicates their mistake. Their testimony therefore(i.e. of the two witnesses)becomes invalid.' Though there is no disagreement that
the people are permitted to cease fasting if the sky is obstructed upon completion
of thirty days, even if Ramadan is established on the testimony of a single person.


alls eel Jn",


And the moon of Eid al-Adha takes the same ruling as Eid al-Fitr.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٠.


٣٣٦ Book IV: FASTING


There must be a large gathering
to sight the moon


Or one whose situation is
unknown, but it is not evident
that he is a wrong doer


There must be a large gathering
to sight the moon


It is conditional to be from two | Or one free man plus two free
free men with shahada(without | women(with shahada, without
commission)commissions)Ramadan(no obstruction)One upright person(with no
shahada or commission)Ramadan(obstruction)Eid al-Fitr(no obstruction)and al-Adha





Eid al-Fitr(obstruction)and al-Adha









Via ro)Establishing The Remainder Of The Months


SbF cpa tt Fe OS oy > ol dae le dls VI LAI bit,


It is conditional in establishing the remainder of the months; the testimony of two
upright men((or one man and two free women))and these individuals must not
have previously been punished for making false accusations of a sexual
intercourse against others. Note: This judgement applies when there is an
obstruction in the sky; for if there is no obstruction a large gathering is required."


coUalt HI oe
The Ruli Seeing The Moon From Different Places
GPE sly call ley ail lb ob - WI sl hb alr GOS Ils

If the sighting of the moon is confirmed in a region, it is necessary upon all the
people in all the other regions and to adhere to this sighting, and they must fast
accordingly. This is the most evident view in the Madhhab and the fatwa issued is
in accordance with this view and one in which the majority of the scholars have
maintained. Therefore, the people of one region(or city)who fast ٢٩ days would
be required to make-up a day if the people of another region fasted ٣٠ days with
their sighting of the moon. This is because the Prophet's words "Fast when you see
the moon" are general and inclusive of all Muslims.[fbn Abidin in his Hashia states.)The different regions are not taken into
consideration according to the evident view in the school; a view which the
majority maintain and the fatwa coincides with. Therefore, the people of the west
are to act in accordance with the sighting of the people of the east.[The explanation
provided in al-Hashia states.| The disagreement with respect to the different regions
means, is it necessary for each region to consider only what they see in their
region and not be required to act in accordance with other regions; or do they
disregard other regions and act according to the first sighting(to the extent that if
it is seen in the east on Friday night and in the west on Saturday night, are those


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٠.

