BOOK II: PRAYER ١٢٧


It is recommended to delay the nightfall prayer('ska)until the first third of the
night. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Would it not be a
burden upon my nation, I would have delayed the 'isha to a third of the night or
half]." However, during overcast conditions, it is preferable to perform the 'isha


prayer earlier due to the minimal gathering present based on anticipated rain or
hail.


ol YL Se oh JAN oT WW sgl pot y


It is recommended to delay the witr prayer to the end of the night if one is certain
he will be alert; meaning if one is sure that he will awaken from sleep and perform
the witr before fajr, then this is preferred. The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[Whoever fears that they will not rise(for ¢ahajjud prayer)at the
end of the night, then he should pray witr at the beginning of the night and
whoever intends to rise at the end of the night, then he should perform it at the
end(of the night)].'


oe, .% .©@
"٩ "° "~~


٤b ٠ SS Sy Dall Ga pF SOU IG
The Prohibited And Disliked Prayer Times


There are three times during which it is not valid to perform obligatory and
necessary prayers that were due upon a person prior to these times. For example:
fajr becomes a debt upon a person prior to the sun rising. Therefore, if the fajr
prayer is delayed until the time when the sun begins to rise, it becomes invalid to
perform it at such time until it has completely risen. In addition, examples of


necessary prayers are vowed prayers, the prayer of tawaf, or a ruined voluntary
prayer.


CEFN SY! atl g ylb are
The times are:


١/ the rising of the sun until it completely rises to the height of a spears length.
Hence, the fajr is not valid for a person performing it whilst the sun is rising.


Ja Fl HL Ysl nt re


٢/ when the sun is at its midday zenith(that is, its peak)prayer is not valid based
on the hadith of Uqbah which is mentioned in the next point.


w Ol Sa avl ey


" AtTirmidhi ١٦٧ and Ibn Majah ٦٩١.
? Muslim ٧٥٥.

