BOOK III: FUNERALS ٢٩٣


chal -٢ el! fad y « Ly ١٥]SUS
The sufficient shrouding is the inner wrapper[iar]and the outer wrapper[٤fafah]. White cotton is the best and preferred type of shroud. Abu Bakr((God be


pleased with him))said[Wash these two clothes of mine and enshroud me in
them]." This hadith clearly indicates that these two shrouds alone are sufficient.


call SO AN o> SLU y GY! oe JS٩


The length of both the inner wrapper and outer wrapper are to be from the head(hair)of the deceased to the feet with an allowance for the knots at the ends.


ai ol RSS Vy Gee Vy ٠ FV eS rae Lat Vy


The shirt is to have no sleeves, or opening at the bottom and no pockets(for this
is a need for the living not the dead). Additionally, the edges are not to be
hemmed.


well Dull Ss
To include a turban with the shrouds is disliked, and this is the soundest view as
it was not included in the shrouds of the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace)). However, some jurists have allowed it.'
The procedure of the shrouds is to first position the outer wrapper on the bench,
then the inner wrapper on top, after which the deceased is made to wear the shirt
and set down on these shrouds.'


es Silaecaly


The inner wrapper[izar]is first folded from the left side, then from the right side(so that the right part will be over the left part). Thereafter, the outer wrapper[٤fafah]is folded similarly.


o Lisl Wis cl lade y
The shrouds may be knotted if it is feared they will unfold.
ged de S٢٥ oy ge SIA OI Gal Alot sy
In the sunna shroud for a woman, two additional cloths are added(to that of the
shrouds of a man); the first is a veil[khimar]to cover her head and face and the
second is a cloth used to cover her breasts that extends from the chest area to the
umbilicus. Though it has been said that it is to extend from the breasts to the


knees. Thus, the sunna shroud for a female includes five covers: ١/ shirt, ٢/ veil, ٣/
inner wrapper, ٤/ outer wrapper and ٥/ breast tie.


١a(Sle op Je USI(AS)٣y


" Recorded by Ahmad.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٠.

