١٩٠ BOOK II: PRAYER





To wear trousers only despite one's ability to wear a shirt is disliked. The basis for
the disapproval is the lack of recognition and appreciation. It is recommended for
a male to pray in all three items: i)underpants or cloth, ii)a shirt and iii)turban.
Whereas for females, it is recommended that they wear: i)a long shirt, ii)veil and
iii)a complete body wrapper.


٨ LoY L pA o٥٥


Returning the greeting of salam with a gesture, such as with the finger or hand, is
disliked during prayer.


we erly


To sit cross-legged in prayer with no reason is offensive because one has left the
sunna style of sitting.


٠ yaw pate y
Having a braid in one's hair during prayer is disapproved because the Prophet((Peace and blessings of God be upon him))passed by a man who was praying


with his hair braided, upon which he said[Leave your hair to make prostration
with you]."


Ub ye glen y Soy fall pal SLs pay slece Vly


I"tijar is disliked in prayer. /"tijar is to tie the head with a scarf or cloth leaving the
middle of the head uncovered.


ayy
Holding up the clothes with the hands is disliked in prayer. This is the pulling up
of the clothes or holding them up from behind when going into prostration. The


Prophet(may the peace and blessings of God be upon him)said, "We have been
ordered to prostrate on seven bones and not to tuck up the clothes and the hair.""


Aedes CFV care ٤d CU V ys dey


Sadl is disapproved. This is the placing of one's shaw]on the head and shoulders
and then letting the sides hang. Likewise, placing an item of clothing upon the
body in a way that the arms do not pass through the places designated for them,
such as a coat that one places on his back to hang. The Prophet((God grant him
blessings and peace))said[If one of you has two pieces of clothes, he should pray
in them; if he has a single cloth, he should use it as a wrapper and should not
hang it upon his shoulders like the Jews].°


sale Je ecle orb y as adn! OF Og Jory


" Tabarani ٩/٢٦٧.
? Bukhari ٨١٠.
٣ Abu Dawud ٦٣٥.

