١٦٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


Mall ٥ ٧ ٤٢٥ ٣
How The Prayer Is P. d(pSV ional b ٢)Legh cade eS od aal ebde pads pod dead ye ٤a @ NaI Gel fo Ih ot]When one intends to pray, he is to withdraw his hands from his sleeves(though
not for a female)and then raise them to the level of the ears and utter the opening
Allahu akbar without extending the letters. One is to form his intention of prayer
when he says Allahu akbar. With respect to extending the letters, this means that
it is not permissible to extend the Aamza in the name of Allah in the saying of
Allahu akbar because the expression would then turn into an enquiry, which is an
indication of doubt. If one intentionally does this, it amounts to disbelief.
Likewise, it is not permissible to extend the hamza and the letter ٣' in akbar. If one
extends either one of these three letters, then he is legally regarded as a person
who is not praying and the prayer is void. With respect to extending the letter ٧' in
the name Allah, it is valid provided it is not made too long. As for extending the
letter 'h' in the name Allah, this is deemed incorrect in the Arabic language, though
it does not invalidate the prayer.


abl OLS SLs db pall ٥٣ JS py DI evar


It is valid to begin prayer with any pure glorification of God, such as 'Glory be to
Allah' or There is no god but Allah' even though it is disliked. The remembrance is to
be pure and utter remembrance not mixed with the requests of a person's needs,
such as, 'O Allah forgive me' because one is asking for forgiveness and neither with
'There is no power or might except Allah' and neither with 'Whatever Allah wills' because
one is asking for the removal of evil and harm, and neither 'In the name of Allah'
because one is asking for blessing.'


Cee a bee Sol By dae Wh ney ٢ ene Vp by de pall oe je OJ Le Mh


The opening Allahu akbar is permitted in Persian if one is unable to say it in
Arabic, which was a saying of Abu Hanifa upon which he later overturned.' If
however one is able to say the opening Allahu akbar in Arabic, then his
commencement of that prayer in Persian or any other language is invalid.
Likewise, the recitation of Quran in any other language other than Arabic is
invalid in a ritual prayer.


Sarg fll ibe J pip OF yay Lacie Uys hy day pull ie ٦ pF oly Jo tens aad y ol
Spo SVs Soe dss Henl Sols


" Nur al-Idah ٩٣.

? Maraky al-Falah ١٥٧.

٣ This means that one is permitted to utter a sentence which expresses the meaning of the
Allahu akbar in another language should one be unable to do so in Arabic.

