٢٣٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Ud! | las yu C٥ ae dy


The sequential order remains excused, even if one performs some of the missed
prayers, so that they are reduced in number, because once the order is excused, it
remains so. For example, if a person has seven missed prayers, the order is
excused. If this person begins to make up the prayers and reduces the seven to
four, the order remains excused.


Led ee fo Ltd a dey Bt> gs Vy


And neither is the order restored if one misses a new prayer after missing six old
ones, for the reason that once the order is excused after six, the missing of a new
prayer does not restore the order and this is the soundest view.


Sy fll day oo ELIS oF UP Ui ys Lda LN sy Jy GUL SID LS ٣ Le gl
ty flay RDN ay oye JF Sy Al gd Oly ode Sy pl oles,[lad Wr e pe Core bo ١ Std
AG jlo y GLE | Sic» oH L


If a person offers an obligatory prayer and during this remembers a missed one,
even if it is the witr, then the prayer becomes invalid in a suspended form. If one
continues to pray five prayers all through which he remembers the missed one,
then all are invalid in a suspended form. When the time of the fifth prayer ends,
which means, the sixth prayer time enters, the prayers are converted to valid
prayers according to Abu Hanifa. And they remain valid, provided the missed
prayer is made up when the #me of the fifth prayer ends, not before. If the missed
prayer is made up before the time of the fifth has ended, then the five obligatory
prayers performed are deemed invalid in essence and stand converted to
voluntary; meaning, the quality of those prayers is no longer regarded as
obligatory, rather they are regarded as voluntary. Consider the following: if a
person begins the 'asr prayer and then remembers he has not prayed the dhuhr.
However, throughout the day, he does not make up the dhuhr; rather he
continues to offer his prayers without making up the dhuhr. He therefore prays
the 'asr, maghrib, isha, fajr and dhuhr of the next day without having made up
the dhuhr he missed. At this point, the new 'asr time arrives. This person
performs wudu and makes up the dhuhr he missed the previous day. The fact that
he made up the dhuhr in this time validates all his prayers after missing the
dhuhr. Though, if he made up the dhuhr before this time, the prayers he prayed
are converted into nafl. See the diagram on the next page.


Note: the reason the prayers became valid is because the fact that they were
labelled as suspended is as though one did not perform them, and the order is
excused after six prayers. Hence, they were suspended due to the order, but
became validated with the dropping of the order.

