٢٢٠ BOOK I: PRAYER





sual ad
The Shorting Of Prayer


The traveller is permitted to shorten the four rak'ah obligatory prayers even if his
intention for travel is to disobey Allah, such as theft. This is according to the
Hanafi School while Imam Shafi'i and Imam Malik held that one intending evil
in his travel receives no dispensations. The shortening of prayers is permitted
when one passes the buildings of his area of residence as well as passing the
townyard[fina]" that is connected to the buildings of his area. Though if there is
farmland or an open space(around four hundred paces long)which is connected to the
townyard, then it is not a condition for one to pass this. Therefore, once a person
passes the buildings of his area including the townyard that is connected to the
buildings of his area, he may shorten prayer even if he has not yet travelled ٨١km.
One does not have to go beyond the farms or orchards that may be connected to
the townyard. Note: nowadays, when a person passes the buildings of his area and then
reaches the parks or cemetery(fina'), this may be connected to another town or village. In this
case,(t.¢. if the fina', such as the parks/cemetery is connected with another village), it is not
conditional for one to pass the next town before shortening his prayers; rather one must only
pass the fina' concerned with his town.'


IM oh٣٩ lps ٤٥ ٥ ALS etLeal tall OI: Lal,


The townyard[fina]is an area regarded as a place of benefit for the town or
village, such as for the running of animals like a stable or a place of burial.


pal a Vm by
Conditions That Validate The Intention Of Travel
LOW szticind bitsy
Three conditions validate the intention of travel
LI SW oc ASN ote Olradi plese F ply SLL II
١- One must be independent(self-governing)with respect to making the
judgement for himself. For example; a soldier with his commander is not
independent and neither is a wife with her husband. The basis for this is that the
soldier or wife cannot form a proper intention because of the uncertainty of the
travel, such as - will they travel the required distance or will they turn back half


way, etc. Therefore, one cannot be joined to someone else where he cannot make
the determination for himself. In this case, one is not independent.


٢- Maturity is conditional.





" The fina'(townyard)is a place that benefits the community of the town, such as a
cemetery, park, or stable. Therefore, if one should pass the buildings of his town as well as
the cemetery connected to this for example, then he is permitted to begin shortening his
prayers even if he has not yet travelled ٨١km.

Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٠.

