BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٧


not move it." And this is the view held by Abu Hanifa whilst Imam Malik relied
upon other traditions indicating that the Prophet did move his finger. The
method of indicating with the finger is to raise it at the time of rejecting the
notion of partnership to Allah and is lowered when affirming that it is only Allah.
Thus, it is raised when one says in the tashahhud 'la tlaha' and lowered when
affirming 'Illa Allah.'


cd Vi day(eb EW el Sy


The recitation of the Fatiha after the first two rak'ahs is sunna according to the
most correct view whereas Imam Abu Hanifa held it as wayib.


JEM gl poleey ae bl Joo gill Une Jo Bally


The recitation of the ibrahémiyya in the last sitting of the prayer is sunna. However,
to send blessings upon the Prophet once in a lifetime is obligatory as Allah said[O you that believe! Send ye blessings on him and salute him with all respect].


tt SY Ry old bl on Lely


It is sunna to supplicate with words that resemble the Quran and the sunna of the
Prophet, not the general talk of the people(after reading the tbrahimiyya). The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Our prayers cannot be
correct with the talk of people included in it]. Abu Bakr reported that he said to
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)), "Teach me, O Messenger of
Allah, supplication, that I may ask for in my prayer." Upon which the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said, "Say, "O Allah! I have done great
wrong to myself and none except You forgives sins, so forgive me and be Merciful
to me as You are the AllForgiving, the Most-Merciful."].* Note: It is not
permissible to supplicate in prayer that which resembles the general talk of the
people, such as, "O Allah! Marry me to this person or give me this much gold."
Hence, the sunna is to supplicate that which has been conveyed to us through revelation, though
uttering something which resembles the talk of the people nullifies prayer.
Geel Lyle pile SUEY,
Turning to the right and then left in the two finishing salams of prayer is sunna.
ee Selb ott cele y deadly Sle SL Miss

In the two finishing salams of the imam, it is sunna for the imam to intend in both
his salams, the men praying with him as well as the females and children, the
guardian angels,' and the pious jinns, and this is the most correct view.


Essentially, the imam is giving salam to the aforementioned persons.


" Abu Dawud ٩٨٤.

? Al-Ahzab ٥٦.

٣ Muslim, an-Nasai ١٢١٧.[Maraky al-Falah ١٥٣].

* Bukhari ٨٣٤.

° The guardian angels are those that record the sayings and actions of man and prevent him
from harm.

