٢٢٤ BOOK II: PRAYER





An intention of residing is not valid for soldiers who are fighting on enemy land
for the reason that there is hesitation in their intention as to when they will leave
and how long they will stay. Thus, in this situation - prayers must continue to be
shortened because the intention of residing is not valid in such a state.


In addition, an intention of residing is not valid for soldiers who lay siege to a city
or town against disobedient Muslims in our land, because again there is hesitation
between staying and departure in which the intention is not specified. The


Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))stayed at Tabuk for twenty days,
shortening the prayers(during his stay)."


ASE cds LAL ols!


A Traveller Praying Behind A Resident And Vice Versa
lard aly eo ci NG pedey Blas asl oly


If a traveller offers prayer in its time behind a resident imam in the
congregational prayer, then the prayer is valid and the traveller is to complete the
prayer as four rak'ahs with the imam.


lead Gene danny « ceva Voters


If however, the congregational prayer is not being offered in its time(that is, its
time has expired)the traveller is not permitted to pray behind a resident imam,
though the traveller can be the imam for the residents in this case," and can also
be the imam if the prayer is offered in its time. The Prophet(God bless him and
give him peace))performed prayer with the people of Makkah while he was a
traveller saying[Complete your prayer, for we are in travel]. Therefore, the
traveller can be a follower behind a resident imam if the prayer is offered in its
time, though not if its time has expired. And it is valid if the traveller is the imam
in both cases.


Beall ٣٤٦٩ NF US yl OF acs dle GP Sie Hil: J py oF(ote ll te)(LW us


COS BL aalal Fo day dace[eo pall Le Ys





" Abu Dawud ١٢٣١.

? For example; the time of the dhuhr prayer has passed, and the resident imam and others have
missed it from its time. They therefore gather together to pray it as a group. In this case, the
traveller is not permitted to pray behind this imam who is a resident, though the traveller
himself can be the imam. And even if the resident imam said the opening Allahu akbar right
before the time of the prayer had expired, the traveller is still not permitted to pray behind
them because the time is not sufficient.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٣]* Abu Dawud | Muwattah of Imam Malik.


BOOK I: PRAYER ٢٢٥:


If the traveller is the imam, it is recommended for him, after the final salams on
completion of two rak'ahs, to say, "Complete your prayer, I am a traveller." However,
prior to the prayer, he is required to say these words to prevent uncertainty. And
after the traveller imam completes his prayer, the followers stand and complete
their prayer without reciting Quran because the imam's recitation suffices and no


one may enter and pray behind them.
wl yall elias


Making Up Missed Prayers
ci NM Tad ally Lash pay gat patly aS islis


If a traveller misses a prayer and decides to make it up when he is a resident, he is
to offer it as two rak'ahs. And if a resident misses a prayer and decides to make it
up when he is a traveller, he is to offer it as four rak'ahs. The factor considered
here of whether to pray the full number when one is a resident or two rak'ahs
when a traveller, is the status of the person in the last timing of the prayer Ae
missed: meaning, if a person is a traveller in the last part of the prayer time, and then misses
the prayer, he is to offer two rak'ahs, and if one becomes a resident in the last part of its time,
and then misses the prayer, he is to offer four rak'ahs. Consider the following: Person X is
a traveller who has not yet offered the dhuhr prayer and has nearly entered the
time of 'asr. Therefore, in the last part of the prayer time, he is a traveller. He then
misses the prayer and returns home becoming a resident. The end result of this
Scenario is that he was a traveller in the last part of the prayer time and is
therefore required to make it up as two rak'ahs. Hence, the status of the person in
the last timing of the prayer determines whether he prays two or four.
Additionally, if one is a resident in the last timing of the dhuhr prayer, misses the
prayer and then decides to travel thus becoming a traveller. He is to offer the full
number of rak'ahs when making up the prayer because in the last part of its time,


he was a resident.
One's Place of Dwelling, Its Types And What Invalidates It'
had tn, Jo! ٣b i flaws
A person's original permanent residence(i.e. homeland)is no longer regarded as
such when it is replaced by a new permanent residence. If one simply departs for
travel or temporarily lives in another location, then this does not nullify the status


of one's permanent residence, for indeed this can only be changed with something
like it. If a person goes on journey, and resides in a temporary residence,


" In order to enact the laws of travel, it is vital to know some of its basic definitions. It is
essential to know the types of dwelling places, such as one's permanent residence(i.e.
homeland)and one's temporary place of residence. There is a difference here, because the place
of temporary residence is a place one travels to intending a stay of at least fifteen days or more,
whereas one's permanent residence is the place one was born or married in and intends to live
out his life - this is known as his permanent home.

