٢٦٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





being the case, it is not disliked for residents of small villages outside the city to
call adhan for the dhuhr and perform it in a group, because for them - it is the
obligation of that time, ii)if those regarded as excused from the Friday prayer
offer the dhuhr prayer as a group, it will interfere with the Friday assembly prayer
and cause confusion amongst others who may believe it to be the Friday prayer."


dar cil sgt ogre sl tee GUS vl ٠


If a person joins the Friday assembly prayer when the imam is in the final
tashahhud, or making the prostrations of forgetfulness, then he is to complete the
remainder of his prayer as the Friday assembly prayer according to Imams Abu
Hanifa and Abu Yusuf. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Make up what you have missed]? Imam Muhammad, Malik and Shafi'i held,
that if a person fails to join the congregation in the second rak'ah of the Friday
Prayer before the imam raises his head from bowing, then the person must
continue the prayer as the dhuhr prayer, which is four rak'ahs, not two. However,
the fatwa is with Abu Hanifa. And Allah knows best.





; Maraky <al-Falah ٣٠٣.
Ahmad ٢/٢٣٨.


BOOK Ii: PRAYER ٢٦"


crap es ob
The Eid Prayer !
bers ba p٢٩ tll ee Se
Its Ruling And Conditions That Render It Wajib
Bel WN pe lp gay ceed « ad ٥ pee Upatl ty death ade OS oye fo ee Daly tall de


The prayer of both Eids is wajib upon any person who is obliged to perform the
Friday assembly prayer. This ruling has been established on the basis of the
Prophet's diligence in performing the Eid prayers and because it has been
established that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed it
from the time it became law until he died without neglecting its performance. The
khulafa ar-Rashidin((God be pleased with them))also observed this as well as all
the jurists. And this is the basis for its necessitation." The conditions for the Eid
prayer are the same as the Friday prayer with the exception of the sermon, for the
Eid prayer is valid without the sermon, though it is a minor offence to omit it
because one has neglected a sunna. Note: the reason the Eid prayer is valid
without the sermon is because it is delayed until after the prayer, which therefore
excludes it as a condition, rendering it a sunna. Additionally, it is not a stipulation
for the Eid prayer to consist of a group of three excluding the imam as is the case
in the Friday prayer. Verily, it is valid if there is one person with the imam.*


Cpl ee be tad C٥ ILS
Likewise, it is an offence to advance the sermon of Eid before the prayer, for this
is contrary to the sunna of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)).
peal LE ٦ ٢ bd OL L
Recommendations On Eid Al-Fitr
ye ae BW bil § oy
There are thirteen recommendations on the day of Eid al-Fitr


Lis٩ FJ SWS, Sol, isbal


" A narration in Abu Dawud states that Anas related: "When the Prophet entered Madina, they
had two days in which they would play. The Prophet inquired, 'What are these two days?' 'Chey
said, 'We would play during these two days in the days of ignorance.' The Prophet said,
'Indeed, Allah has replaced for you these days with something better. They are the Day of Adha
and the Day of Fitr.""[Abu Dawud ١١٣٤].

? Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٥.

٣ Nur al-Idah ١٦٦.


٢٦٨ BOOK ١١: PRAYER


It is recommended to eat an odd number of dates before going to the mosque.
Anas((God be pleased with him))reported that the Prophet(God bless him and
give him peace)would not depart for the Eid al-Fitr until he ate a date and he
would eat them in odd(numbers)." However, there is no sin if one does not eat
before the prayer, although if one does not eat in that day, there is blame on his
part.'

als el by ek Seay Jc


It is recommended to perform the purification bath(ghusé), brush the teeth(siwak),
to use perfume and to wear the best clothes one has. Ibn Abbas reported that the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))used to take a bath on the day of
Eid al-Fitr and on the day of Eid al-Adha.' Also, it is recommended to brush the
teeth in all prayers and is encouraged on special occasions. The Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))on the day of Eid would perfume himself.'


age ey)«ball Go S٢٥
It is recommended for a person who is required to pay the sadaqah al-Fitr, to give


it before the prayer, for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))ordered a person to perform this before the people departed for prayer.'


GEN, ٧ Al ٤h,
It is recommended for one to exhibit and display happiness and joy in gratitude
of the blessings Allah has bestowed upon us, and so this joy may affect others.
ailb > GLa! ٥ ٢٥,


It is recommended to give extra sadaqah, depending on one's capacity. Note: if
one does not possess extra funds, then he is to give only what is required.


loi de yay pSctly


It is recommended to be awake early at the earliest period in order for one to
worship in a state of vivacity.


ball J]de stl poy EY,
It is recommended to arrive early at the place of prayer in order for one to acquire
the maximum rewards and benefits, such as being in the first line.
Ba ٢٢h ٩.٣.٣ reall St sgl ١٣]aadadtyy We ١S Lele baal GI ams od am dee S ena Dey


BYuall paxil las oh aly)" Bukhari ٩٥٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٥.
*Tbn Majah ١٣١٥.

* Al-Mustadrak ٣/٢٥٦.
* Bukhari and Muslim.

