٣١٠ BOOK III: FUNERALS


bough which was buried with him. If you dig it out, you will find it with him. The
people hastened to it and took out the bough.""


hel ails ely fe shia easy ٢٢ V٥
The grave is not to be unearthed if the deceased was placed in the grave facing a
direction other than that of ka'bah or because the deceased was placed on his left
side. The unearthing of the grave for these reasons is not permitted. And Allah
knows Best.[Maraky al-Falah states. Many Hanafi scholars of recent times hold the view that
gathering near the family of the deceased and remaining until people offer their
condolences is disliked. Instead, when people return from the burial, they are to
disperse and go about engaging in their own matters and leave the family of the
deceased to deal with their duties. It is disliked to gather at the door or pathway of
those who have suffered a calamity, for it is an act of the people of ignorance and
the Prophet prohibited such a thing. This dislike also extends to gathering in the
mosque. It is also disliked to be treated to a feast by the family of the deceased
because being treated to a feast was sanctioned for joyful times and not for times
of grief and it is a repulsive innovation.' The Prophet(God bless him and grant
him peace)said(There is no slaughter('agr]in Islam].? Abdur-Razzaq said: they
used to slaughter cows and other things at graves. And this is what is meant by the
hadith for they would slaughter at the cemetery a cow or sheep. It is however
recommended for the neighbours of the deceased or distant relatives to prepare
food for the family of the deceased so that it would suffice them for the day and
night. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Prepare food for
the family of Ja'far, for there has come to them that which is keeping them busy
or something which is keeping them busy]."





" Abu Dawud ٩٧٦.

? Ibn Abidin states: It is disliked to make food on the first day or third day or after one week;
and likewise, taking food to the cemetery on special occasions(such as Eid)is disliked. The
reality is that preparing or making food for the purpose of eating is disliked, though making
food for the poor is fine. He said: all such acts are for the purposes of show and the desire to be
heard; and they are therefore to be distanced from because the pleasure of Allah is not sought.[Note: there is no issue with reciting Quran over the dead. This is not the issue. The issue is that
nowadays, the family of the deceased is expected to spend a vast amount of wealth on food and
prepare a gathering where they call the righteous to recite the Quran; all of which is for the
purpose of eating and not for the sake of God. The preparation of food in Islam is meant for
good times and not for sad times]. Imam al-Qurtubi held in at-Tadhkira[١١٨]: All such actions
are deemed sunna nowadays and that to leave such a practice is regarded as an innovation; the
situation has thus reversed. Ibn Abbas said: a year will not pass the people except that they
remove in it a sunna and revive in that time an innovation; until the sunan are dead and the
innovations are alive. A person will not practice the sunan and reject innovations except for the
one who Allah has aided in disregarding the anger of the people toward him because of his
acting contrary to their desire.[Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٧].


> Abu Dawud ٣٢٢٢.
* Tirmidhi ١٦١٠.


BOOK Ill; FUNERALS ٣١]It is recommended for men to offer their condolences and likewise for the women
who will not cause discord[fina]. This is based on the saying of Prophet
Muhammad((God bless him and grant him peace))[There is no believer who
consoles his brother for a calamity, but Allah will clothe him with garments of
honour on the Day of Resurrection].' The Prophet also said[Whoever consoles a
person stricken with a calamity will have a reward equal to his].? In addition, after
one has consoled his brother once, it is not a requirement that he do so a second
time.'


٢B oyk٣ ٣ od
Visiting The Graves
ee fe obatly Sle WU teak


It is recommended for men and women to visit the graves of the departed, and
this is the soundest view. It has been stated by some scholars that it is forbidden
for women to visit the graves, whereas the soundest view is that it is permissible
for them to attend. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Visit
the graves,(as it)reminds you of death],* and Fatima would visit the grave of
Hamza every Friday, whilst A'ishah visited the grave of her brother Abdur-
Rahman. The sunna of visiting is to visit standing and to supplicate standing as
the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed when visiting al-
Baqi'. A'ishah reported that whenever it was her turn for Allah's Messenger to
spend the night with her, he would go out towards the end of the night to al-Baqi'
and say, "Peace be upon you, abode of a people who are believers. What you were
promised would come to you tomorrow, you receiving it after some delay; and
God willing we shall join you. O Allah! Grant forgiveness to the inhabitants of
Baqi' al-Gharqad.""

Ce gd Le ote IOS try opie dil ait oy ١ pill Joo op shor il J oy
It is recommended to recite the surah Ya.Sin as it has been reported from Anas(God be pleased with him)that the Prophet said, "Whoever enters the graveyard
and recites Ya.Sin(offering its reward to the dead), Allah will relieve them therein and
he acquires the reward equal to the number of them." The author explained that
one who recites YaSin and advances the rewards of recitation to the deceased
shall receives rewards according to the number of deceased people therein as held
by Imam al-Zayla'i,® and that the deceased is relieved from his punishment
therein for that day.'


" Tirmidhi ١٦٠١.

? Tirmidhi ١٦٠٢.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٧-٣٤٨.

* Muslim ٩٧٤.

> Muslim ٢١٢٦.

° Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٩.

" Tuhfatu alAhwadhi ٣/٢٧٥.


٣١٢ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


Anas stated that he asked the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace),
saying: "O Messenger of Allah, if we give sadaga on behalf of our deceased, or
perform hajj on their behalf, will that reach them? The Prophet(God bless him
and give him peace)replied[Yes, it will, and they will be delighted just as one of
you is delighted when a dish has been given to him as a gift]." Thus, a person may
forward the rewards of his actions according to Ahi as.Sunna wal-Jama'a and this
will reach and benefit the deceased as Imam Zayla'i stated. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[Recite Ya Sin over your dead].? And as
stated earlier, the word 'mawtaakum' translated as dead or deceased in the above
hadith leaves no reservation or doubt that the term and meaning is literal and
real. And it is not permissible to leave the literal position unless there is proof to
the contrary. It is therefore necessary that it be specified as literal with the saying
'mawtaakum'


Therefore, one is to donate the rewards of his actions to others according to Ahl
as-Sunna wal Jama'a. The basis is the narration of Ibn Umar who said that the
Prophet said, "If one of you voluntarily gives charity and makes it on behalf of his
parents, then they will receive the reward and his reward will not be deducted."*
And this is regardless of whether the act is prayer, fasting, hajj, charity[sadaga},
the recitation of Quran, invocations and all other righteous acts. This will reach
the deceased and benefit them as mentioned by Imam Zayla'i in the chapter of
Hajj On Another"s Behalf: Moreover, Ali narrated that the Prophet said, "Whoever
enters a cemetery and recites surah Ikhlas eleven times after which he donates the
rewards to the dead, he is given rewards as much as there is dead."


Furthermore, in the explanation of al-Lubab, it states that one is to recite of the
Quran that which easy upon him with respect to the Fatiha, the first part of the
Baqarah as well as the last part including the verse al-Kursi. Likewise, Surah Ya-
sin, Tabarak al-Mulk, Surah at-Takathur and al-Ikhlas twelve times or eleven
times or even seven or three times is to be observed. Following this, one is to say,
"© Allah! Allow the reward of what we have recited to go to so and so.°


The scholarly majority hold that the recitation of the Quran reaches the deceased
whether it is recited at the grave or far from it, especially if the reciter on
completion donates the reward of that recitation to the deceased. Furthermore,
the reciter also receives the same reward without reducing anything from his
reward or the reward of the deceased. The position of the Hanafis and Hanbalis is
that a Muslim is entitled to donate the reward of any kind of worship he performs
to whomever he wishes of the Muslim dead.





" Al-Kamil ٢/٣١٣.

* Abu Dawud ٨٨٠ and an-Nasai and Ibn Habban graded it a sound narration.
*Maraky al-Falah, ٣٢٢.

'-Tabarani fil Awsat ٧/٣٥٨ / Maraky al Falah ٣٥٠.

Parqutani and mentioned by al-Ja'luni in Kashf al-Khafa ٢/٢٨٢.[Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٠].
"Hashia Ibn Abidin.


BOOK ١١١: FUNERALS ٣١٣


eadl G pal fe sel AU Op» dle SY,


There is no dislike if the reciter of Quran sits near the grave in order to recite the
Quran in tranquillity, and this is the opted view.


Legh yy dol ٥ pal pill Joo grille Sy


It is disliked to sit near the grave for other than reciting Quran. In addition, it is
disliked to step or walk upon a grave due to lack of respect. Abu Hurairah
reported the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))as saying[It is better
that one of you should sit on live coals which could burn his clothing and come in
contact with his skin, than he should sit on a gravel].


Ugele dL Lady gly


It is disliked to sleep on a grave and it is prohibitively disliked to relieve oneself
on a grave whether it is urinating or defecating.


tA ce tly Atl Abs


To remove moist grass or trees from the graves is disliked for the reason that as
long as the grass or trees remain moist, they supplicate to Allah. And with the
remembrance of Allah, His Mercy descends, upon which the deceased is relieved.
The proof is the Prophet's actions when he passed by two graves. He took a green
branch of a date-palm tree, split it into two parts, and fixed one on each grave.
The people said, "O Messenger of Allah! Why have you done so?" He replied, "I
hope that their punishment may be lessened till they(the leaves)become dry."


Lae itl ale bY,


Though there is no harm in removing dry grass or trees because their purpose has
ended, i.e. their invocations.


Jogetll pS ob


The Rules Of Martyrdom(Shahada)Literally, the term Shahid has many meaning; such as: a)the one whose testimony
is true and b)one who dies in the path of Allah. It is given this expression(i.e.
dying in the path of Allah)because the angels of mercy bear witness to him or
because he has present with him that which will testify to his actions, namely his
blood and injuries; or because he witnessed dar alSalam with the exiting of his
soul. And Allah knows best. The term Shahid in its legal sense, is given below.


" Muslim ٩٧ ١.
٢ Bukhari ١٣٦١.

