٢٤٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


If the person(who forgets to sit at the first sitting)returns to the sitting posture
after being closer to standing, then he is to perform the prostrations of
forgetfulness. Note: one is regarded as being closer to standing when the bottom
half of the body is straight up, whilst the back is leaning. If on the other hand one
was closer to sitting, then he is not required to offer the prostrations of
forgetfulness. One is regarded as closer to sitting if his legs have not been
straightened. If one returns to the sitting posture after completely standing,
scholars differed whether the prayer is nullified or not, though the clearest report
is that the prayer is sound.


٢ gnill ٢ be poll dregs dey DL ale pV o gall ٣٦ Ge OL


If a person forgets to perform the last sitting and rises for the fifth rak'ah, he is to
return to the sitting posture provided he does not prostrate in the fifth rak'ah, and
must then perform the prostrations of forgetfulness for delaying the compulsory
sitting. It has been narrated that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))[Returned(to the sitting posture)after standing for the fifth, and he
performed prostrations of forgetfulness].


Le ٤d all GANS Vy nd Shula pall D sly cele Of Grol oy Me ٤d she de Of
TeV sped toes Vy ermal


If on the other hand one performs a prostration in the fifth rak'ah(whether it is
done forgetfully or intentionally), then his obligatory prayer is converted into a
voluntary one for the reason that he has engaged in a voluntary prayer before the
completion of the obligatory one. Abu Yusuf held that: the prayer is no longer
regarded as obligatory from the moment one places his hands on the floor for the
prostration in the extra rak'ah, while Muhammad said it is when one's forehead is
raised from the floor; and he may add a sixth rak'ah if he wishes, even if it was in
the 'asr prayer or a fourth rak'ah in the fajr for the reason that it is desirable to
complete this voluntary prayer which was not originally intended. And there is no
dislike for having added these rak'ahs because they were not intended from the
Start, and this is the soundest view. Upon this, one is not to perform the
prostrations of forgetfulness for having left the sitting, because what is rendered
deficient by an invalidating factor cannot be mended." Note: voluntary prayer is
performed as two rak'ahs minimum and for this reason it is desirable to add a
sixth rak'ah or a fourth rak'ah in the dawn prayer.


ST el ond ٤d gh flay free OS Ag tll ole]pe op ples ale — AU od eV o yall ad OL


" Bukhari ١٢٢٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٨.

