BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٢٧





a A ae SL


The Prayer Of A Sick Person


van MM fay ٤S
How The Prayer Of A Sick Person Is Performed
E٩٥٧ ew ro a olka gi ٢ Works Ge gle rt oye a sl plat JS a٢ pl fo pin ١}AKaz Le sti ol Vy seo dele AS Anny pres


If one is unable to stand for the entire prayer or it will be difficult due to the
presence of strong pain or one fears aggravation of his present illness or that it
may delay his recovery if he were to pray standing, then it is permissible to pray
seated offering bowing and prostration, and one may sit any way he likes." The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked about praying with an
illness upon which he said[Pray standing, and if you are unable, then pray sitting,
and if you are unable then(pray)on your side];' and if one is able to stand for part
of the prayer, then he is to do so according to his capacity.


A Of « ¢ ٩٥ Sle! cy aie)dg oclel frm y cele Wb Meld foo yrectly ٩٥! pad Oly
cea Y ane wast


If one is unable to bow or prostrate, but capable of sitting even though leaning
against something, he is permitted to pray sitting and nod his head for the bowing
and prostration; and his nod for the prostration is to be lower than his nod for the
bowing; and if one does not lower his head further down, then the prayer stands
invalid. Note: the same rule applies if one cannot prostrate, but able to perform
the bowing; in that he is to nod for both of them. The basis for this rule is the
hadith of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)who visited a man and
saw him praying on a cushion. The Prophet removed it after which the man took
a stick and began to lean upon it. This was also removed by the Prophet as he
said, "Pray sitting if you can and if you are unable, then pray by indicating(nodding), and make your nod for the prostration lower than your nod for the
bowing."


VY qe ls ait y J Ob ale tne tars abn Vs


And one is not to elevate anything to his face to prostrate on, such as a board.
Though if he does this and lowers his head further down for the prostration than
the bowing, the prayer is valid. If not, then the prayer is deemed invalid, because
one has left the compulsory prostration through nodding. The Prophet(God bless


" Whether it is the iftirash style, the tawarruk style or in a completely different manner, though
it is disliked to sit in an offensive manner when there is no reason to do so.

* Bukhari ١١١٧.

* AbBaihaqi in Sunan al-Kubrah ٢/٣٠٦.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٥].

