١٩٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


pny ale att fo Nb ol yo sends IVs a Vine ess


Reciting none other than one particular surah is disliked, unless one does so to
ease the matter or to imitate the recitation of the Prophet to receive blessings((God bless him and grant him peace)).


pall sy cy ٤b ٥٩M ly fe Gap SEIS Ss


It is disliked if one neglects to place a barrier(screen)when offering the prayer in
a place where someone is likely to pass in front of him. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[When anyone of you prays, he should pray
toward the barrier, should stand close to it and should not allow anyone to pass in
front of him]."


£٣٩٧*(٧b ١٣)dual ge Oy SUI aiay ٣ pol SLI
Placing A Barrier(Screen)And Preventing A Passer. Crossing.
CoM Tale Belial ٦١٣ Spb ٠ S٥٦ fee ٥ pay OT I nn Cony» ob ١٣)If the person intending prayer believes that someone will pass in front of him,
then it is recommended for him to insert a barrier the height of an arm's length
or more into the ground with the thickness equivalent to a finger.


Jae Ug}danas Vy tao le sol fo glad ys gr ob ol ott,


The sunna is to stand close to the barrier; and to place it at either side of the
forehead and not face it directly, but rather be either a little to the right or left of
it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[When one of you
prays facing a barrier, he should keep close to it, and not let the devil interrupt his
prayer]."

JOU Jbe ٥ pl Nig Vgb Uae Bs ana bd J Ly


If there is nothing available to place as a barrier, then one is to draw a
perpendicular line in front of him, while some scholars maintain that he is to
draw the shape of a crescent horizontally, and if the ground is hard, then one is to
put something in front of him in a straight line. Abu Hurairah reported the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))as saying[When one of you prays,
he should put something in front of his face, and if he cannot, he should set up his
staff; but if he has no staff, he should draw a line; then what passes in front of him
will not harm him].' According to Ahmad Ibn Hanbal, it should be in the form of
a semi circle.


" Muslim ٥٠٥.
٢ Abu Dawud ٦٩٥.
٣ Ibn Majah ٩٤٣.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩°


JU is Si cmedly


It is recommended whether or not one has placed a barrier, not to drive back ¢
person who tries to pass through the area of prostration, for prayer is based upon
tranquillity and calm.


let pablo Sy eet EYL ands ary y


If someone tries to pass in front of the person praying, he is permitted to drive
him back with gestures of the head, eyes, or something other than this, or with
tasbih, such as saying, 'Glory be to Allah', though it is disliked to perform both
because one of the acts suffices. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))gestured with the children of Umm Salama.


iol DLS palll ab » dnd y
A male is permitted to drive back those who try to pass, by elevating his voice
when reciting Quran.
BOY Ue pe FV ٥ pl US trie Jo fol ole gles jataal ١ LEYL anit

Females are to ward off passers with gestures or with the clapping of their hands,

the top part of the right hand onto the inside palm of the left hand. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The men should say 'Glory be
to Allah'{Subhan Allah}and the women should clap];? however, the women are not
to raise their voice, not in recitation or in tasbih because their voices are fitna(temptation).

Gi dy cls Jaslly WIS aL Sy peoyy ey lll fle Y,


The one praying is not to inflict physical violence upon the one trying to pass.
And with respect to what is related in the hadith of the Prophet((Peace be upon
him))who said[When one of you prays, he should not let anyone pass in front of
him; he should remove him away(by force)as far as possible, but if he refuses, he
should fight him for he is only a devil];' this was uttered by the Prophet at a time
when one was still permitted to make actions in prayer, such as shaking hands for
salam, but indeed such actions have been annulled which means the 'hostile'
section of the hadith is also annulled.


"Tbn Majah ٩٤٨.
? Bukhari.
٣ Abu Dawud ٦٩٧

