BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٥


No٠ Nol
The dhuhr that The afternoon ٧





was missed prayer is
The time of the suspended.
Sifth has ended. No ٢
If the dhuhr is —
made up here, The sunset
the rest become prayer Is
validated suspended
No ٥ No٣
The dhuhr No٤ The night-fall
prayer is ee prayer is
a A


suspended


opal gate rob Ssh ig gi tule pa aged aly old, Skee IS cyuseil cling Cail gill BS ١


If one misses a large number of prayers, it is necessary to make them up until one
predominantly believes that he is free of debt; and during the making up of these
prayers, one is required to specify each missed prayer, such as saying, "I intend to
perform the dhuhr prayer of Tuesday, the ٨" of Rajab ١٣٩٤ AH." However, this
method may entail great difficulty. If however one wishes to simplify the matter,
then he may specify the first dhuhr prayer due on him or the last dhuhr due on
him. The same rule applies when one is observing unperformed fasting of
Ramadan of the past two years. The requirement for specifying in these cases is
one of two correct legal views, which oppose each other. Verily, one view
maintains that specification is required and one view holds that it is not."


Co pal alge At shy lel oy phey


A person who becomes Muslim in enemy land(dar al-harb)and does not pray, or
fast and does not know the requirements of Islamic Law, is excused from having
to make up what he missed because the aim of the law requires the individual to
have knowledge of the compulsory actions, and this is not present in enemy land.
However, Imam Zufar held the view that one is not excused based on his
ignorance.


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٦.


٢٣٦ BOOK Il: PRAYER
day Al Sta}ob


Catching The Prescribed Prayer
DY seg ee alad dra ٥ ٥٢
When Is It And Is It Not Permitted To Cut Off Prayer
ab ¢ po drs dO}Gal y abd te| LI oa Sb bo pie wide ١٣
If one starts an obligatory prayer alone and then the prayer in congregation


commences, he is to cut off his prayer by giving salam standing, and join the
imam provided he had not performed a prostration in the prayer he began alone.


ich)et Gin Jl


And if one prostrates(for the first rak'ah)in other than a four rak'ah prayer, such
as fajr or maghnib, and then the prayer in congregation commences, he is to cut off
his prayer after the prostration by giving the finishing salams, because if he adds
another rak'ah, then he will be deemed as having completed the obligatory prayer for
fajr and maghrib in a technical sense. With respect to the maghrib prayer, completing
the majority of rak'ahs is regarded as completion of the prayer in a technical
sense. It is thus vital not to add a second rak'ah.!


Les fide GIN od ٦ DIL AS OAS I pred pln y AU Sy nd HEL)J dre UI


If one prostrates in a four rak'ah prayer, such as the dhuhr, and then the prayer in
congregation commences, he is to add a second rak'ah to it, then finalise these
two rak'ahs with salams so that the two rak'ahs he performed are regarded as
voluntary prayer; after that, he is to join the group offering his obligatory prayer


in order to secure the merit of praying with the congregation.
pall GY)ase Gaal od LEAT UE Lo of,


If a person has offered three rak'ahs from a four rak'ah obligatory prayer alone,
then he is to complete the prayer because the majority has been performed, and
the major part takes the rule of the whole. After this, he is to join the group with
the intention of offering voluntary prayer, except in the 'asy prayer or fajr, for the
reason that we have been prevented from offering voluntary prayer after the 'asr
and fajr. Therefore, he is not to join the congregation of the fajr or 'asr as a voluntary act.
However, Imam Muhammad maintained that this person is to complete the
remainder of his prayer sitting, so that the prayer is regarded as a voluntary one,
and thereafter join the group prayer and offer the obligatory prayer in a group. In
this manner, one will achieve the merit of the voluntary prayer as well as having
performed the obligatory prayer in a group."


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٨.
٤ Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٨.

