٢٨٤ BOOK II: FUNERALS

Book III: The Funeral Prayer[Janaza]CONTENTS:
The Funeral Rules


The Funeral Prayer
Its Ruling And Pillars
Conditions Of The Funeral Prayer
Sunan Of The Funeral Prayer


The One Most Entitled To Conduct The Funeral Prayer
The Ruling Of Multiple Funeral Prayers At The Same Time


Carrying The Deceased And The Burial
Visiting The Graves
The Rules Of Martyrdom


The Reality Of A Martyr According To Islamic Law
What is Done With A Martyr(Shahid)٢٩٤
٢٩٥
٢٩٦
٢٩٩
٣٠٤
٣١١


٣١٣
٣l٤
٣١٤


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٨٥


Pl isl ol
The Funeral Rules
Ads eal, ad ٥٩ olde jhe ys dees fe parla ٥ oy


It is sunna to turn the dying person on his right side. And it is permitted to keep
him on his back, as they are easier to treat, though his head is to be slightly
inclined so that his face is directed towards the qibla and not the sky.


be Vas CU ab opens Balt Sd gly


It is sunna to instruct the dying person to say, "There is no god but Allah" letting him
hear it(so he can repeat it)but without irritating insistence and without ordering
him to say it. It should not be said to the dying 'Say.', rather it is recommended
to encourage the dying to repent to Allah, in saying 'I seek forgiveness from
Allah, the One and only' etc.! However, the disbeliever is to be ordered to utter
the testimonies of faith. Anas((God be pleased with him))said: A young Jew
became ill. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))went to visit him
upon which he sat down by his head and said to him "Accept Islam." The boy
looked at his father who was near his head, and he said, 'Obey Abu al-Qasim.' So
he accepted Islam, and the Prophet stood up saying, "Praise be to Allah who has
saved him through me from hell."' This shows that it is meritorious to visit a non-
Muslim during his illness. In such cases, Islam behaves on humanitarian

ounds.' Therefore, the dying is to be reminded about the shahada given that the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Whoever's last words were
'There is no god but Allah', he will enter Paradise].' The Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))also said[Prompt your dying with the saying 'There is no
god but Allah'].> With respect to the first point about instructing the deceased
without insistence, this is due to the nature of the situation, for at that time it is
difficult and it is feared that the dying may become annoyed.


tar il ٥ onal y


Instructing the deceased(talqin)after his body has been placed in the grave is
legal(through Islamic law). Instructing the deceased means to instruct the
deceased with the declarations of faith, "There is no god but Allah and
Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, the Holy Book, and other matters of
creed.[/bn Abidin states in his Hashia:| \t is reported that the Prophet ordered the
instruction[talgin]of the deceased after the burial. Therefore, one is to say, "O


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٢.
٢ Bukhari ١٣٥٦.

٣ Abu Dawud ١/٨٨٢.

+ Abu Dawud ٣١١٠.

٥ Abi Shaybah ٢/٤٤٧.


٢٨٦ BOOK Hl: FUNERALS


such and such, remember your religion that you were upon in the world; namely
~ la ilaha illa Allah Muhammad rasul Allah, and that paradise is true, hell-fire is true
and the resurrection is true; and that the hour is coming of which there is no
doubt; and that Allah will resurrect those in their graves; and that you are pleased
with Allah as the Lord and Islam as the religion and Muhammad as the
Messenger, and the Quran as the guide; the ka'bah as the qibla and the believers
as brothers:.!


Indeed, the basis for this instruction is the saying of the Prophet, "Instruct your
dead, 'I testify there is no god but Allah"? This has been related by the group,
except Bukhari and this action is attributed to AAl asSunna walJama'a.
Furthermore, the word 'mawtaakum' translated as dead or deceased in the above
hadith leaves no doubt that the expression and meaning is literal and real. And it
is not permissible to leave the literal position unless there is proof to the contrary.
It is therefore necessary that it be specified as literal with the saying 'mawtaakum'?


Additionally, the authentic hadith of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him
peace)ordered that the bodies of the idolaters slain on the day of Badr be thrown
into a well whose interior was uncased with stones, then he approached the well
and began calling the unbelievers by their names and fathers' names, saying: "O
So and soson of so and so, and So and So- son of so and so, it would have been
easier had you obeyed Allah and His Messenger. We have found what our Lord
promised to be true; have you found what your Lord promised to true?" To which
Umar said, "O Messenger of Allah, why speak to lifeless bodies?" And he replied,
"By Him in whose hands is the soul of Muhammad, you do not hear my words
better than they do." This authentic hadith clearly shows that a dead person hears
the words of a living person.


cal Y bss


Though it has been said that the deceased is not to be instructed(reminded)after
being placed in his grave, although this saying is attributed to the Mu'tazilah.* Al-
Qadi Amir Muhammad al-Karmani was asked about the instruction or reminding
the deceased upon which he said, "Why should a person not observe this
instruction of the deceased, seeing that it contains benefit from what is
transmitted from the Companions, God be pleased with them all."


at gts Van ee Y bo


It has also been said that one is not to be ordered to instruct the deceased and
neither is he to be prevented from doing so. This means that the person who leads
the funeral procession, usually the imam or anyone else, is not to be ordered or
prevented from instructing the deceased.


" Radd al- Muhtar vol. ٣/٨٠.
"Muslim ٩١٦,

"Maraky al Falah $٢٢.
'Mataky al Palah ٣٢٢.


BOOK Il: FUNERALS ٢٨٧


Cte okt Ogg ale Sealey parallel SY wy


It is recommended for the relatives of the dying person and his neighbours to visit
him and recite surah Ya—Sin in his presence, as was ordered by the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))who said[Recite over your dying Ya-Sin]." They
are also to remind him and fulfil his rights and offer water to drink as the thirst at
the time of death is great." Furthermore, they should produce in his mind a sense
of hope mentioning God's unlimited mercy.


Some of the later scholars maintained that it is good to recite surah ar-Rad in the
presence of the dying, due to the saying of Jabir((God be pleased with him))[For
verily, it makes easy the exiting of the soul].°


ode op olntly ail elo)gl abel


Scholars differed whether the female with her menstrual periods or postnatal
bleeding should withdraw from the presence of the dying, implying that this may
prevent the presence of angels descending due to the attendance of a female in
such a state, as is related in the hadith. The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[The angels do not enter the house where there is a picture, or a dog
or a person in the state of janaba(sexual impurity)].' Indeed, one in the state of
janaba is similar to one who suffers menstrual periods. Note: The dog kept for
watching agricultural fields or cattle or the house is exempt from this prohibition.
And the word picture refers to an image of sentient objects.


pt any abe ail fre atl Spry Le the oy ail ny: ane J pry elise pant sold at ol ١٣)٥
ase EN al ee le feels Hla edad ote cde Jewry opt ole po


Upon death, it is recommended to close the jaw of the deceased(with a wide
bandage tied around the head and under the jaw so the mouth is not left open),
and the eyes are to be gently closed, since it is an order reported in the sunna.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[When you visit your
deceased persons, you should close their eyes, for verily the eyesight follows the
soul and you should say good words for the angels say, Amin' to what the people
of the house utter(for or against him)}." The one closing the eyes of the deceased
is to say, "In the name of Allah and on the religion of the Beloved Prophet. O Allah, lighten
the matter on him and smooth the path for what is after it, and honour him in Your meeting
and make that which he has gone to better than that which he came out from."





" An-Nasai ٦/٢٦٥.

? Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٣.

٣ Imam Suyuti Mandhur ٤/٥٩٩.
* Abu Dawud ٢٢٧

> Tbn Majah ١٤٥٥.


٢٨٨ BOOK Il; FUNERALS


٠ he Je a٩ ٥٩٨ Vy ecrw oly aid iy ٦ ets WY Bom hy fe as gy


It is recommended to place something heavy on his stomach, such as a metal to
prevent bloating(as was related by Imam Shafi'i), thereafter the hands of the
deceased are placed on his sides. It is not permitted to place the hands on the
chest of the deceased for it is a practice of the People of the Book. Also, the limbs
and joints should be made flexible by bending the forearm to the upper arm, the
calf to thigh and the thigh to the stomach and then straightening them. Likewise,
the fingers are flexed in order to smooth the process of the washing and
shrouding.'


bw ogo oe oF at oel ٥ oN


It is disliked to recite Quran at this time in the presence of the deceased until he
is washed(for verily as the washing is taking place, the impurities and filth are
being washed away).


Gym pl ertep -LY,


There is no harm with announcing the death to the people. Verily it is
recommended in order to increase the amount of people who perform the funeral
prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If any Muslim
who dies and forty men who associate nothing with Allah stand over his body(i.e.
they offer prayer on him), Allah will accept them as intercessors for him].' Note, if
the number increases the intercession would be more effective as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If a company of Muslims numbering
one hundred pray over a dead person, all of them interceding for him, their
intercession for him will be accepted].


* re owes


It is recommended to make haste in preparing the deceased for burial. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[And make haste, for it is not
advisable for the corpse of a Muslim to remain withheld among his family]."


V٩ pF pe SEES eos


The deceased is to be placed on a bench(or washing platform)which is lightly
fumigated with incense or a scented compound by circling the washing bench in
odd numbers, such as three, five, or seven times. Note: During the wash, it is
permissible to place the body in one of two positions. One may place the feet of
the deceased facing towards qibla, or one may place the right side of the deceased
towards the qibla.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٥.
* Muslim ٩٤٨.

* Muslim ٩٤٧.

* Abu Dawud ٣١٥٣.


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٨٩


moll fe Gal AS oy
Accordingly, the body is placed in the position that is agreed upon, and this is the


most correct view(note: whichever position is convenient is permissible).
SF ps


Thereafter, the private area is covered, which is between the umbilicus to the


knees. However, al-Hidaya states that it is sufficient to cover the major private


area.!


Seely Laas aaa fis Vee ٠S VY ٦ ٩٥٩٩ Ol ye o>


The clothes of the deceased are then removed, and he is given wudu without
rinsing the mouth or nostrils. Though a young child who is not mentally
competent for prayer is not given wudu.


Lee OS tY


If however the deceased is in a state of sexual impurity(such as after sexual
intercourse or is a menstruating woman or a woman with postnatal bleeding)they
are to have their nostrils and mouth gently rinsed.


AIT AW yay ch DE Vy ٣٢> ot pte far le ale ney


Upon completion of wudu, water which has been boiled with sidr(lote tree leaves)or Aurud(a type of leaf)is poured on the deceased. And if there is no lote tree
leaves to boil with the water, then plain(unmixed)water is to be used. It was
reported that Allah's Messenger((God bless him and give him peace))came to us
when his daughter died and said[Wash her three or five times or more, if you see
it necessary with water and sidr(lotetree leaves)]."


bbl otyel, Lin,


The head of the deceased including the beard is then washed with khitmi, which is


a plant that has sweet aromas and is used as a cleansing agent also known as
marshmallow.


WIS ae Le ood aoe Se oe le SUN feces o> fanied opler fo erent


Thereafter the deceased is tilted onto his left side(as it is sunna to allow the right
side to be bathed first)and is then washed until the water reaches the part that
touches the bedside. During this tilt, water is poured from head to toe. The body
is then placed on its right side and similarly bathed, until the water reaches the


entire body.
Jay dy abit ace oo bey Medley cee y A]Ls bel gS


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٦.
? Bukhari ١٢٥٣.


٢٩٠ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


The deceased is then inclined in a sitting posture slightly leaning forward(to
prevent him falling)and the stomach is gently messaged(to clear away any traces
of remaining bodily substances). Whatever exits the body is to be washed away,
and the washing process is not to be repeated. Ali Ibn Abi Talib((God be pleased
with him))is reported to have said that when he bathed the Holy Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))he began to trace out from him, which one traces
from the deceased. But he did not find it. Thereupon he said[May my father be a
ransom for you. You are the most pure. You were clean and pure in life and you
are clean and pure after demise]."


ebyael, fe bytl Jat yo rities


The deceased is then dried with a cloth. Hanut(balm or an aromatic compound)is
then placed upon the beard and head of the deceased as was related from Alii,
Abbas, and Ibn Umar."


orl le pls,


Thereafter, the places that touch the floor in prostration are rubbed with kafur(camphor). That is, it is placed on the forehead, nose, hands, knees and the feet as
Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud narrated.


٦ alas Oy BS call Seated Jnl S ads


Cotton is not to be used during the washing, and this is the most evident view in
this regard. However, some scholars such as Imam Zayla'i have said there is no
problem in placing cotton on the face, though the majority hold that during the
wash one should not place cotton in the anus or front part of the deceased.


aad go ete pe Voto tb pats Ys
The nails, beard and hair of the deceased is not to be cut, trimmed or combed


due to the words of A'ishah((God be pleased with her))"Why do you stretch the
forelock of your deceased?"


Vadee fant Vi A gl lS dey Lew yj fanaa af Il


The wife is permitted to wash her deceased husband for the reason that she
remains his wife for another four months and ten days.* Though the opposite is
not permitted(i.e. for a man to wash his wife, the reason being that ceremonial
relations have ceased). Likewise, a slave who has given birth to a child of her
master cannot perform the washing of her master, though if there is no one
present to wash him, the slave is permitted to wrap a cloth around her hand and
purify her deceased master by tayammum. If a woman is not found to bath a
woman, then her husband is allowed to purify her by tayammum.


" Ibn Majah ١٤٦٧. The isnad is sound.

* Ibn Shaybah ٢/٤٦٠.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨.

* If however, she gives birth after his death or her waiting period | 'idda]of divorce is complete,
she cannot bath him.[Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨].

