BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٣


Note: muhadha(or closeness)is the standing of women next to men[with the
likelihood of touching]. If they are near each other for the performance of a pillar
according to Muhammad or for the equivalent time according to Abu Yusuf, in a
prayer that includes bowing and prostration; and they are participating in the
same prayer and the same place without a veil between them; and he did not
indicate to her to move back, then his prayer is nullified. For he is ordered to
direct her to move back in accordance with what Ibn Mas'ud related — saying,
"Move them back insofar as God has moved them behind."" If she does not move
back with his indication, then her prayer is nullified. The last of the conditions
that nullifies his prayer is; that the imam had intended to lead her prayer at the
opening Allahu akbar. If the imam does not include her in the intention, it is of
no harm since her prayer is not permitted, because without her inclusion,
participation is not established in the Hanafi view, with Zufar disagreeing.


Hence, the conditions are: ١)that the woman arouses sexual desire, ٢)that they be
standing near each other[muhadha], ٣)that it occur during the performance of a
pillar or the time it takes to perform a pillar, ٤)that it be in a complete prayer,
that is — one that includes bowing and prostration. This therefore excludes the
funeral prayer. ٥)that they are participating(and joined)in the same prayer(that
is, under the same opening Allahu akbar), ٦)that it be in the same place, ٧)there
is no screen or veil between them, ٨)the man did not indicate to her to move back
and ٩)the imam intended to lead her prayer at the opening Allahu akbar."


Oo, ٠, ٢%,
" ~~ "~~


A vital note for the following points. If a person inadvertently breaks wudu in prayer,
it is permitted for him to leave the prayer, renew wudu and return and continue
the same prayer he was performing. This is termed dina'. However, there are
certain actions that if performed on the way to renewing wudu or on the way
back, terminate the prayer and prevent the individual from continuing that very
prayer. An example of bina' is the following: The Apostle of Allah((God bless him
and grant him peace))began to lead the people in the dawn prayer. He then
signalled with his hand to 'Remain at your places." Then he entered his home after
which he returned while drops of water were coming down from his head and he
led them in prayer.' In addition, the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[A person who vomits, has a nose bleed, or emits madhi in his prayer
is to turn away and perform wudu, and he may then continue his prayer as long as
he has not spoken].' However, if one engages in certain actions, they would
prevent one from continuing the prayer he began and one would consequently be
required to begin a new prayer. These actions include:


+ pd gh Lge dah MV ASS aS asad yp cdl ain ٠٣)٩٦)٤h


" Abdur-Razaq fi Musanafih ٣/١٤٩.[Maraky al-Falah ١٨٨}.

; Maraky al-Falah ١٨٨.

* Abu Dawud ٢٣٣.

' Tbn Majah and Darqutni. Al-Zayla'i, vol. ٢, ٦٠.[Al-Hidayah, ١٤١].

