BOOK III: FUNERALS ٢٩١


BE peas pF py Id dey Ly ٦B Fu A KAS Ls yes Sle SH edd pl ys


If a female dies amongst men, they are to purify her by tayammum, and the
person who conducts this, is to wrap a cloth around his hand. Likewise, if a man
dies amongst women, they are to purify him by tayammum with a cloth wrapped
around the hand of the female who does it. If however, there is a relative present
who is unmarriageable(mahram), then they are permitted to give the deceased
tayammum without a cloth whether the deceased is male or female. The reason this
is the case is because they are unmarriageable. Hence, it is permitted for them to
touch the parts of the deceased that are required for tayammum."


uly J aU Gee IRAN Nis y


The same applies for a hermaphrodite; that is, they are to be purified by
tayammum according to the most evident opinion.


Lee dines pe Le ah ly Je WU ٥٩٤


It is permitted for a man to wash a young girl who has not reached the age of
puberty provided he does not desire her. Likewise, it is permitted for a woman to
wash a young boy provided she does not desire him, because their body parts are
not classified as private parts due to their age.'


coll ps LY,


There is no harm if one kisses the deceased out of love. A'ishah((God be pleased
with her))said: I saw the Apostle of Allah((God bless him and give him peace))as
he kissed Uthman Ibn Madhun while he was dead, and I saw that tears were
flowing(from his eyes). Note: Uthman Ibn Madhun was the foster brother of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)); he was an immigrant and was the
first among the immigrants to die. The Prophet kissed him out of love for him.
Abu Bakr is also said to have kissed the Prophet when he died.


COW I ae shy lal jae Jo dl Jey
It is the responsibility of the man in preparing his deceased wife for the burial
and shrouding according to Imam Abu Yusuf, even if he is in financial difficulty


and this is the correct view which is in harmony with the fatwa issued. Note: the


kafn are the shrouds which the deceased is made to wear prior to being placed
into the grave.


lis ٤٠ oye Je aS SLY opr


Whoever dies and has no money, then the cost of the shrouding is to be paid by
those who were legally required to assist him before he died(such as his family).


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨.
* Abu Dawud ٣١٥٧.


٢٩٢ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


MW oy(fb ott de OF pode pd oly


If there is no such person present, then the responsibility falls upon bait alse,
which is wealth that the imam of the Muslims has gathered from chaity
donations, taxes on the ground, zakat etc.


Nt Jos(Ab ol jae daw J Op


If however, there are no funds given(for the shrouding of the deceased)from kit
al-Mal either due to insufficient funds or injustice(in that they say that the righ of
wealth is for the benefit of the Muslims, or due to ignorance)then it is upon the
people who are able to donate funds and assist.


ob ade hb Voy grt J JL, Col os),


A person who is financially unable to assist the deceased in the shrouding or
burial is required to seek assistance from others on behalf of the deceased.


ihm Gad lS es Mila y Shik pared | em fe NAS


To enshroud the deceased is obligatory. As to the number of cloths used, thi is
divided into three types; namely, sunna, sufficient and necessity. The suma
shrouding of a man consists of, i)a shirt, which extends from the base of the neck
to the feet, ii)a wrapper{izar], which is the inner shroud, its length being from the
head to the feet, iii)an outer wrapper[٤fafah], its length being longer than one's
body, extending beyond the head and feet with which the entire body can be
wrapped with an allowance made for the tying of the knots at both ends." And the
quality of the shrouds is to be equal to the clothing one would wear when he was
alive, such as on the day of Eid celebration or Friday prayer.' Additionally, one
should not be extravagant in shrouding. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[Do not be extravagant in shrouding, for it will be quickly
decayed].'.


Important note: There are times of necessity or little means when some of the
shrouds are unavailable, for example, Mus'ab Ibn Umair((God be pleased with
him))was martyred on the day of Uhud. He had only a striped cloak, when his
head was covered, his feet appeared and when his feet were covered, his head
appeared. Thereupon, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Cover his head with it, and cover his feet with grass].' In this example, it is clear
that due to the circumstances, this man was shrouded only in a single garment,
which sufficed due to the necessity. This means that in the event of necessity, it is
permissible to enshroud the deceased in what is available. Though if all shrouds
are available, it is sunna to use all shrouds. Thus, the shrouding is divided into
three sections: ١-sunna(if all are available), ٢-sufficient and ٣-necessity.

ee

" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٩.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٩.

* Abu Dawud ٣١٤٨

* Abu Dawud ٣١٤٩.

