١٢٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


leyprs —


The Reason That Obligates Prayer
lee ply cd Mh ٢٥ lei si LL,


The reasons that obligate the five daily prayers are its times, i.e. when the time of
prayer arrives, one is obligated to pray. And it is necessary to perform prayer at
the beginning of the prayer time which is allocated for the prayer. Note: the term
wajib muwassa' means that the Law Maker has allocated an extended time to
perform an obligation; and that such time is sufficient to perform the required act
and others acts of the same kind alongside it. For example, the time for the dhuhr
prayer is an extended time which fits both the dhuhr prayer as well as the
performance of other prayers alongside it. It is therefore necessary to perform the
prayer, such as dhuhr at the beginning of this time period. Furthermore, if the time
becomes limited or restricted, then it means that the time is only sufficient
enough for the act itself and no other. This is known as wajib mudayyig. Thus,
should one delay his prayer right until the end of the prayer time, such that it is
just enough time for the prayer itself, one is required to offer the obligation
immediately.


doy all ol pall Sb yi
The Times Of The Obligatory Prayers
nat g gl fo٥ SI Gobel pail! pb op ead LE SUSY,
The times are five;
١/ The dawn prayer(fajr)begins at true dawn and ends just before sunrise. True
dawn is when the sky around the horizon begins to increase in light, before this, a


dim light sometimes appears overhead for several minutes, followed by the
darkness, and this is termed the deception dawn.


GU Lely oh en YB ٥ gee alte gf ate ٢ ge IS IB pene OT MY eI S٥٥ ye sgl ayy
in Lali S٩٥ ٠ ٩ syleabll


٢/ The time for the noon prayer[dhuhr]begins after the suns zenith at midday and
ends when the shadow of all things upright becomes, i)twice as long or, ii)equal
to the object, with an allowance made for the original shadow at noon.' Imam al-
Tahawi opted with the second ruling and it is the saying of the two companions
Imam Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf including the majority of the fuqaha


" Usul al-Fiqh, Wahbi az-Zuhayli vol, ١/٥٧ | Maraky al-Falah ١٠٥.

* Note: the original shadow at noon is the measure of the shadow as it stood when the sun was
at its peak. Therefore, an addition of the original shadow of that object at noon time is to be
taken into account. 'This means that it is the double shadow plus the original shadow at noon
according to Abu Hanifa; whereas according to the two companions, it is the equal shadow plus
its original shadow at noon.

