٢٢٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


him and give him peace)said[Whoever of you is able to perform prostration, then
he should perform it, and whoever is unable, then he should not raise something
to his face to prostrate on, but rather for bowing and prostration should indicate
with his head]." In the text al:Mujtabah, it states: The manner of nodding for
bowing and prostration appeared to resemble each other, in that - is it enough to
just slightly move forward with the head and body? Or is one required to lower


themselves as far as possible? The narration thereafter became apparent with a
proof that permits the slight movement of the body and head.

Shaykh al-Islam held that if one prays by indication and slightly moves his head for
the bowing, and then for the prostration slightly moves his head, then it is
permitted according to Abu Hanifa. Ibn Fadal on the other hand held that it is
not valid because the action required has not been performed; and that the reality
of indication is to lower the head. Additionally, some scholars say, "If a person
suffers from an ailment with his forehead and nose, such as severe dizziness, then
he is permitted to pray with indication(nodding), and he is not required to lean
forward as far as possible."


Vo Mal Mage y mead toley ly ck fatge Sls My cece fe ole Lin glo atl ai oly
ALD S}Lede Ys phd ٠! ٢٥)rt ag ٦ oll


If it is difficult to offer prayer sitting, one is permitted to lie down on his back or
side and offer the prayer through indication, although the first option is best, i.e.
to lie down on one's back because one has more of his body facing the direction of
prayer. And during this posture, one is to place a cushion under his head in order
to direct his face towards the qibla, not the sky, and must raise the knees if
possible to avoid extending his feet towards the direction of prayer.


SB ٦ Mad agi plo Le(CULE Le ٣٩ DDS y py Be = ay Aa BLAND)co LSI pas Oly
cereal ya: Glad! J
If one is unable to pray by nodding his head for five prayer or less, then they are


postponed so long as he understands communication; meaning that his rational
faculty is functioning, and this is mentioned in al-Hidayah as the correct view.


Ohy i pho ah ope AST ol LVI ٢٦ a jane plo ١٣ eLadll b gy(Aly ell)§ Std Cole pies
JIB LY Bb EY At eshtly Chaaall)J alte Otani re ys OUadl agi ls
p٥٩(SM)cot Gere Ll ga ILD Fy ccs cilladery Uy II aU ya Ce pall
GN gh ys Fly sie


" Tabarani ٧/١٧٧.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٦.

