١٤٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


And if the follower behind the imam does recite Quran, whether it is the Fatiha
or another surah, it is prohibitively disliked because there is prohibition on the
matter. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[No-one from
you should read anything from the Quran, if it were being recited aloud]." And
the verse from the Quran and hadith that have passed previously are sufficient
proof.


ager Abe Kindy damm AE Le fo > prely § ٩٥ My


It is obligatory to prostrate on something which the forehead can completely
stabilise; prostration is not permitted on things such as snow, hay, or rice in which
the head cannot stabilise or settle.


andy[t pb d}٤٩ db sl iS Je ٥


Prostration is permitted on the palm of the hand of the one praying and on the
edge of his clothes provided the place where the hand or clothes are placed is
pure. Note: if one performs prostration on the edge of his clothes or palm of his
hand without a reason, it is disliked. This dislike also applies to one who performs
prostration on the wrapping of his turban without a reason. If however, the
wrapping of the turban is completely on the scalp[without any part it touching the
forehead| and one prostrates on the wrapping only, then it is not valid.'


UgAh phe ope WY fo sad Yl maar Vy agers dail op he ly bye y dey


Prostration must be performed with the rigid part of the nose and forehead and it
is not permissible to restrict the prostration to the nose only, unless there is a
reason with respect to the forehead, such as an injury upon it. This is the view of
the two companions of Abu Hanifa.


٥F ob glad ead de at by G١٣ taal ye ASL ed Ad ys ٦ opel fe pla y| pe
wee frase ٤ Le[gd dare dm J Vio el


In addition to the conditions that validate prostration is, one must not raise the
level of prostration higher than the level of the feet by more than half an arm's
length; and if one increases over half a arms length, then the prostration is invalid
unless there is a jam(crowd)in which case one may prostrate on the back of
someone who is offering the same prayer.


Va ٢a fe a pred Se nbn NI rll oy eet etsy ermal boeS My tll oss
pee


" Darqutani ١/٣٢٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ١٣١.

