٢٢٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


pail Ko
The Ruling Of Shortening
Vase an pass ٣


The shortening of prayers according to the Hanafi Madhhab is regarded as
prayer in its original state as it was when it was first introduced for the traveller.
Verily, when the prayer of the traveller was revealed from the beginning, it was
two rak'ahs, not four as in the case of the dhuhr prayer for the resident. It is for
this reason that the prayer of the traveller in the Hanafi Madhhab is not an
allowance[rukhsa], it is an 'azimah. The term 'azimah is used in the Arabic text
above, and is intended to read as — the prayer of the traveller is an 'azimah. The word
'azimah literally means a firm resolve. According to the Sacred law, it is regarded
as a matter that was sanctioned(and made law)from the beginning without it
being connected to any variance. On this basis, the Hanafi School deems it wajib
for a traveller to shorten his prayers. Imam Shafi'i and Imam Ahmad held that
the shortening of prayer is a dispensation, therefore, if one wishes he may shorten


prayer and if one wishes he may pray the full number. Imam Malik held that the
shortening of prayer is a sunna and not wajib."


UY UU BY ٦ ٥ IBY VI ٦ cena ٨ VL y ٦ al SI es Cee Core Syl a gall andy SOL I aT SP


As previously mentioned, it is wajib for a traveller to shorten his four rak'ah
prayers to two rak'ahs, though if a traveller completes four rak'ahs and sat the
first sitting, the prayer is valid, though is disliked because the finishing salams
have been delayed." In this case, the last two rak'ahs are deemed as voluntary
prayer for him. If however, he does not sit for the first sitting after two rak'ahs and
continues the prayer as four rak'ahs, then the prayer is not valid, unless he
intended to be a resident when standing for the third rak'ah, in which case the
prayer is valid, even if he did not perform the first sitting, because in this case, it
is obligatory to pray four rak'ahs, and the prayer of a resident who misses the first
sitting in a four rak'ah prayer does not invalidate the prayer. /n summary, if the
traveller prayed four rak'ahs without offering the first sitting, his prayer is void, unless he
intends residence when standing for the third rak'ah.


١ :
Rawai'ul Bayan, ٤٨٤.


* The reason the finishing salams have been delayed is because one is required to pray two


rak'ahs, not four; and because one delayed his finish by praying four, it is disliked though is
valid if one offers the first sitting.

