١٧٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





aby carly cps dale]Pj dey sacl aba(od


What the Follower Is To Do After the Imam Completes A Pillar Or Other
Ants etall ye gcd G١}J pel ple

If the imam offers the finishing salams(ending the prayer)yet the follower has not
completed his tashahhud, then he is to complete his tashahhud for the reason that
it is wajib, and thereafter perform his finishing salams. However, if the follower
has read the tashahhud, but not the ibrahimiya, then he is to omit this and give
salam with the imam on the basis that the ibrahimiya is sunna, though joining the
imam is necessary[wayib]. Additionally, if the imam has risen for the third rak'ah
and the follower has not yet recited the tashahhud, then he should recite it,
although if he does not complete it and rises with the imam, it is permissible.


darks > prod sf ٦ ٥ JI GU gard and JS and, PLY gd)yy


If the imam raises his head before the follower completes his three ¢asbih in
bowing or prostration, then the follower must join the imam leaving the tasbih.


ohm y ele Loss OL y ٦ iG ans Vale pe Vl o inl de i lite PLY ١٥ yy


If the imam forgetfully performs an extra prostration or stands up after performing
the last sitting, then the follower is not to join him, rather, he is to wait for the
imam. If the imam continues ahead and performs the extra rak'ah by prostrating
instead of sitting back down, then the follower is to give salam alone. If however,
the imam sits down after standing without registering the extra rak'ah by
prostrating, then the follower is to give salam with the imam.


Ab PA b Bm Bt SH aol ted Ob LF steal Le Of op yall acd Lal nV o gia ٥ PLY(lb Ly


And if the imam stands up for the fifth rak'ah forgetting to perform the last
sitting, the follower is to wait and utter tasbih to warn the imam. If the follower
gives the finishing salams alone before the imam prostrates in the additional
rak'ah, then the follower's prayer is nullified because he performed a pillar alone,
ie. the last sitting. Therefore, if the follower gives salam in this case before the
imam has registered the extra rak'ah by prostrating, then his prayer is void.


wee fo ple Vl tgs dn, sural pro Sy


After the imam recites the tashahhud in the last sitting, it is disliked for the
follower to offer the finishing salams before him. It is disliked because he has
disconnected from the imam although his prayer is valid. And if the sun rises
after the follower has given the finishing salams but before the imam had given
salam, then the followers prayer is deemed valid which is agreed upon. Abu
Hanifa held that the imam's prayer is void with his two companions disagreeing.'





" Maraky al-Falah ١٧٩.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٧٧
PF pal dy do ٥١ St ISS


Remembrance After The Prescribed Pra
O game ٥٨ IL Hears II J! pLit
To rise for the sunna prayer straight away and link it to the obligatory prayer is a
sunna of the Prophet((peace and blessing of God be upon him))with the
exception that it is recommended to separate a moment between them as A'ishah
reported that the Prophet would wait the amount of time it took to recite, "O


Allah, You are peace, and peace comes from You, Blessed You are, O Possessor of
glory and honour,"" thereafter he would stand for the sunna prayer.


SSN y tay I oy aly gael ALY: Ghd AsVI nat yey


It has been reported that Shams ala-Jmma al-Halawany said, "There is no harm in
reciting invocations between the obligatory and sunna prayer," though another
Hanifa text a/-Jkhtiyar maintains the contrary, stating that every prayer that is
followed by a sunna is disliked to sit and supplicate for. Instead, one should
become pre-occupied with the sunna so that he does not separate the sunna from


the obligatory prayer.
Noda firey Oly ٦ tl be ¢ gh ole UI pe OV ee dey pL Corres


After the imam offers the final salams, it is recommended that he move to his left
side to perform the supererogatory prayer which follows the obligatory one.
Thereafter, it is recommended that he face the people if he wishes after having
completed the supererogatory prayer. Samura Ibn Jundab narrated that the
Prophet((God grant him peace and blessing))used to face us on completion of the
prayer.'

UW dil Oy dren


One is then to seek forgiveness with Allah three times, as Thauban(God be
pleased with him)reported that when the Prophet of Allah finished his prayer; he
begged forgiveness three times and said, "O Allah! You are Peace, and peace
comes from You, Blessed You are, O Possessor of glory and honour."?


AY Y)Op)pd pb LUGS ٤٥٩ Soy HIS ٤٥ pat y Hy UW ail O prey ld pally(SI ٤١ O٩٠ pty
ily ean y gent pede od dd age JS Le pry debt dy HU cd th po Voto abl Y]٠١ pease al Ope el peal


" Abu Dawud, the Book of Prayer.
? Bukhari ٨٤٥.
> Muslim ٥٩١.

