١٦٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


raised except on seven occasions: the takbir of the opening(glorification); the
takbir of qunut(supplication); the takbirs of the two Eids; and he mentioned four
occasions for the hajj(pilgrimage)]."


gu lgesll ٤ ٥٩ obiny aig pede pale y ٥ pal abe y > fl ESI AAS NN jdm oe Jr IES NBL
S٥٩٥ oi Ay enol bans y itd fo any adyy ill


When the male completes the second prostration of the second rak'ah, he is to sit
for tashahhud and is to spread his left foot and sit upon it while his right foot is
upright with the toes directed towards the qibla. During this, he is to place his
hands on his thighs flattening his fingers. This method of sitting is known as the
iftirash style. And the female is to adopt the tawarvuk style of sitting, because this


provides the best cover for her.

Jai Vy ASW ae Ugarny gill se Ug yp Bolg jn dL Lely ace al go yo yas lig l sy

lS py dlinyy gol bel the pA obebally Ol ally ob low! ppg dyVlo gail Gugtll Je
A)gery tee Maat Ot agcly dl Y]UY of aged tla dil abe Jey Wyle eA!


One is then to utter the tashahhud as reported by Ibn Mas'ud and indicate with the
index finger for shahada, raising it at the negation[there is no god]and lowering it
when affirming[except Allah]. Nothing is to be added to the tashahhud during
the first sitting, for one must not delay the standing for the third rak'ah. The
tashahhud is, "Greeting to Allah. Peace be on you, O Prophet, and the Mercy of
Allah and His blessings. Peace be upon us and upon Allah's righteous slaves. I
testify that there is no god except Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of
Allah." Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud(God be pleased with him)said[The Messenger((God bless him and grant him peace))took me by the hand and taught me the
tashahhud just as he taught me a surah of Quran, and said, "Say: Greeting to Allah.
up to its end"}.?


Ne Leo ob pedeny ale abt feo cll ite fo ro of Agel Sy ole ot CV ue ls bab ZIT ٥s,
WPA[Sane pe Legh c abl Um yy Sebo pH: I ydad Lyla y Lewy ple pd Gly OF I ty,


Subsequently, one is to recite the Fatiha alone in the last two rak'ahs. He is then
to sit in the last rak'ah and recite the tashahhud, followed by the ibrahimiyya. He
then supplicates, that which resembles the Quran and sunna. Upon completion,
the finishing salams are to be made beginning with the right, then the left saying
"May peace be upon you, and the Mercy of Allah" during which one is intending
in his salams those who are with him as was mentioned earlier.


" Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٨٩-٣٩٠.
? Muslim.

