BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٤٣


Eating a small amount of salt nullifies the fast and imposes expiation and gada;
and this is the opted view on the matter. Note: If the salt swallowed is a lot, the
ruling changes in that the fast breaks, but the expiation is not imposed, because


the tendency of man is to veer towards having a small amount of salt, not a large


one.!


LA bY abe shor yi dlp pM


Swallowing the saliva of one's wife or friend breaks the fast and atonement is to
be observed through expiation. The reason being that one is not repulsed from
the saliva of his wife or friend, though if one swallows saliva from other than his
wife or friend, then the expiation is not required because in this case it is detested
by the one who swallows it.


dy JLe cpnd dey gh SSL nb ope dar liae dey gli gg US gle de gb bee de of Ge de Lee abst
AA fe aby gh pa dy Std eae gf asad obsdl ١٣ Y]iy dl acl Ub


If a person intentionally eats after backbiting, or(eats)after being subjected to
cupping, or after touching his wife, or after kissing with desire, or after sleeping
near his wife(touching and kissing her)without ejaculating, or after applying oil on
his moustache because he believes that such acts(such as backbiting and cupping)have terminated his fast, then he is liable for expiation and to make up the day. The
exception however(which excuses the expiation)is if he is given a legal ruling by a
scholar(who said that such acts do break the fast, such as cupping, which some of the people
of hadith regard as a terminator of the fast; and this was his understanding)in which case
he is not liable for expiation because according to the offender, he believed he
had broken the fast(after cupping and backing biting, and so went ahead and ate)based
on the ruling given. And the other exception is if he had heard the hadith of the
Prophet but did not understand its meaning according to the Madhhab, such as[The one who backbites has broken his fast], so he progressed forward and ate
based on what he understood, not knowing the meaning given by the Madhhab,
then in both cases the expiation is excused. Though if there was no such ruling
issued or one did know the meaning of the hadith according to the Madhhab, the
expiation is necessary to perform. And whatever the case may be, one is still liable
to make up the day. /n summan, if a person intentionally eats after the above mentioned
acts, then he is liable for expiation and gada unless an Islamic scholar issued a ruling or the
person did not know the correct meaning of a hadith he had heard according to the Madhhab.


٥ USI abe cam y ab yb Gc of,


If however the person knows the meaning of the hadith he heard(according to the
Madhhab)then he is liable for expiation.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٧.

