The Chapter Of Adhan


Linguistically, adhan means to inform. Though according to the Sacred Law, it is
to carry out and notify people about the entrance of the time of prayer with
specific sayings. The adhan became part of Islamic law in the ١* Year of Hijra.
Though, some held it was the second. Before the introduction of adhan, the people
would be informed of the entrance of prayer by calls in the street announcing,
"prayer-prayer." Thereafter, the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))gathered his Companions for consultation about what they could use to inform
the Muslims about the time of prayer. One of the Companions suggested the bell,
but the others including the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))disliked this for they did not want to enact what the Christians observe. And one
of them suggested to burn a fire, but the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))did not want to imitate the fire worshippers and they did not end up
agreeing on anything. Then later that night Abdullah Ibn Zaid had a dream and
during this dream he saw a man teaching him the sayings of adhan. When he
woke, he mentioned what had occurred to the Messenger of God((God bless him
and grant him peace))who became very pleased with this. The Prophet then
ordered him to mention the sayings to Bilal in order that he may utter them
aloud, and this is what Bilal did. From that time onwards, the adhan became an
established sunna for the prescribed prayers.


Ma Y ١s OY >


The Ruling Of The Call To Prayer(Adhan)And The Call To Commence(Igama)cludll a Sy Ra pl Icon gl Lyies clicad gi claf ta prin hy(peal pall ٥٢٨ ye Ais QalSYly GIS Spee
The call to prayer[adhan| and the call to commence[igama]are an emphasized
sunna for the obligatory prayers even if one offers the prayer alone, or whether
one is performing the current prayer or making up a missed prayer or whether
one is a traveller or resident. In addition, it is disliked for women to call adhan or
igama. Abu Hanifa said that if people of a city offer the congregational prayer
without the adhan being called for the prayer, then they have acted contrary to


" Muslim ٦٦٠.

