BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٥٩


As for the three types established through the sunna and in which one has an
option of performing intermittently, are as follows: ١)the expiation fasting[kaffarah)for intentionally breaking one's fast in Ramadan. ٢)Optional fasting and
٣)the vowed fast, ie. one promised to perform a particular day. The same is
maintained in Bada-i'asSana-i'as well in Tuhfatul Fugaha."


aN All ٤٥ Vy ela! fe ead +١ oLaey ole of


If another Ramadan comes along, yet one has not fasted the previous Ramadan,
then one is to perform the current one and thereafter make up the unperformed
Ramadan. And there is no fidya(penalty fee)for delaying these missed fasts up to
the current Ramadan. Although, according to the Shafi'i Madhhab, there is.


pl lcm
The Elderly
٢ ot Clee eal gp IS al lege hi y GU ٥ pee y OU eS phaall ٥ ٩s
It is permitted for a frail old person(male and female)to break their fast. They
must however pay the fidya for every day missed. The fidya(or fee)is half a
measure of wheat(which equals ١.٦ kg), or the equivalent in cash. Note: the frail old


person is called the shatkh fani in Arabic for the reason that he is close to death.
And the ajuz faniah is in reference to an elderly female.


enad L ٦ pe yi ps
One Who Vowed To Fast His Entire Life And Weakened As A Result
Mil pai G pS Ql fe tis ١ OP Gadey gad - Eth SLY - ce aad A peo pd eS
shi y Gl


If a person vowed to fast his entire life and as a result becomes weak and feeble
because of his working efforts to provide for himself and family, then he is to
break his fast and pay the fidya. If however, he is unable to pay the fidya due to
financial difficulty, then he is to seek forgiveness from Allah and rescind his vow;(ie. one is to seek pardon for his shortcoming).


" Bada-i asSana-i" ٢/٢١٠ |Tuhfatul Fuqaha ٢/٣٤١[Maraky al-Falah ٣٩٢].


٣٦٠ Book IV: FASTING
sal Yo


When The Payment Of The Fidya(Penalty Fee)Is Not Valid


As there is expiation to atone for violations of fasting, there also exists expiation
for other violations. Such expiations become imposed for issues like breaking
one's oath and murder. The expiation(kaffarah)of a broken oath is, ١)to free a
sound Muslim slave, ٢)to feed ten poor people, ٣)to provide clothing for ten such
persons. If one is unable to do any of the above, one must fast for three days.


٥٩٦ VSG jhe gm peed gf OU at py He ee ADL EB JS I es dW de Cary Sy
ok ot Jay bap pall OY Kull


If the expiation of a broken oath or murder is required of a person, and he does
not have the financial means to carry out the expiation of freeing a slave or to
feed or clothe unfortunate persons, then he is required to fast. Though if this person
is old and feeble and therefore unable to fast or he does not fast when he has the
ability to do so until he becomes old and enfeebled, then in both cases, it is not
permitted to pay the fidya. The same applies to the expiation[kaffarah]of fasting.
In addition, one cannot undertake the atonement of fasting unless he is unable to
expiate with payment.
٠p)rd phil ¢ shell lal ٥ yt
The Permissibility Of Breaking Voluntary Fast With Or Without A Reason
٤ly)٣ rhe A pall ¢ phere ٥٩٤٥
It is permitted for a person who is performing a voluntary fast to break it with no
reason, according to the opinion of Abu Yusuf. A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))said: The Apostle of Allah((God bless him and give him peace))came to me
one day and said[Is there anything with you(to eat)?]I said, "No." Thereupon, he
said[I shall then be fasting]. Then he came another day and we said, "Messenger
of Allah, hays(a type of food)has been offered to us as a gift." Thereupon he said
"Show that to me." He then said, "I had been fasting since morning," then he ate.'


It is vital to point out, that if one breaks a voluntary fast, it becomes necessary to
make it up as an act of devotion.


LIE BULA oi Syed aS y anally era ٤b Jo pic Lally


Entertaining is regarded as a reason(for breaking a voluntary fast)according to
the most evident view, for both the guest and the host, and for them is the glad
tidings of this great benefit in that the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[Whomever breaks his fast for the right of his brother, the rewards of


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٩٣.
* Muslim ١١٥٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٦١


fasting a thousand days are written for him and upon making up the day, the
rewards of(another)thousand days of fasting are added to(his)account)]. This
hadith has been specifically indicated to by the author of Nur al-Idah. This means
a guest may break his voluntary fast to entertain his host, and the host may break
his voluntary fast to entertain his guest. And Allah knows best.


٤٢ pe Wi Se A old y cpecteall ges pl ae fle glace ٦ ٢ ١٣]Y]Lait ate Sie sl fo bil bit,


If a person breaks a voluntary fast in any situation(whether there is a reason or
not), he is required to make up the day, except if he begins to fast during one of
the five following days, they being the two days of Eid and the days of Tashriq,
for verily there is no requirement to make up the days if one breaks his fast
during these days(as we have been prevented from fasting on these days)and this
is the most evident view on the matter as held by Abu Hanifa, for it is not
permitted to complete the fast upon these days, on the basis that he has engaged
in something prohibited. Thus, he is ordered to break his fast and attend to
entertaining his guest during these days of celebration and Allah knows best.


LA poy LaSly ¢ pall gies cow eli gle pl Lb OL


Fulfilling One's Promise Such As Fasting, Prayers and Other.
JAIL obi Se ho


When Is One Required To Fulfil His Promise


If a person vows to perform good deeds, then he must fulfil what he promised,
provided three conditions are met. Allah Almighty said((let them fulfil their
vows))," and the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whomever
vowed to obey Allah, then he should obey Allah and whomever vowed to disobey
Allah, should not disobey Him].'


aly ee op OK OI


١-The act(one promises)is to be from a category which is wayib, such as fasting,
prayer, and hajj. This means that a person can make a vow to observe fast and
prayer since prayer and fasting(in essence)originate from a wajib category.


I> pated Sol,


" Hajj ٢٩.
٢ Bukhari ٦٦٩٦.


٣٦٢ Book IV: FASTING


٢-The primary actual act itself must be specifically intended by the person, not the
pre-requisite of the act; for example, one cannot promise to make wudu because it
is the pre-requisite to prayer. And wudu is not the primary thing that is intended,
but we do so in order to pray. Hence, one cannot intend a thing that is linked to
the act; rather, he must intend the act. It is the primary act itself which one must
vow, such as prayer, fasting, charity etc.


bly pd OS Ol ٥


٣- The act that one promises must not already be required of a person, for
example, one cannot promise to pray the noon prayer(dhuhr)because it is
already compulsory to perform. Hence, one cannot promise to perform an act that
he must already perform, but rather it is an additional act.


٠ rdy + yd ole SL


One is therefore not required to perform wudu if he promises to do so because it
is not the primary act; rather, it is the precondition for prayer and other acts of
worship.


sy sume Vy


Likewise, a person is not required to perform the recital prostration if he vows to
do so because it is already necessary to respond to the prostration verse if one
hears or recites it.


as Maole Ys


One is not required to visit the ill if he promises to do so(because it does not
originate from a wajib category as mentioned in point ١ above. Though Abu
Hanifa disagreed saying; that If one intends to visit his ill brother today, then his
vow is valid and if one promised to visit his friend, he is not required to fulfil this,
because the visiting of the ill is a worship and he mentioned the saying of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[The one who visits the sick is as
though he is in the fruit garden of paradise until he returns]."


Promising to do acts of worship which are already required is not valid because
they are already imposed on the person by law.


SAL pray


One's vow is valid if he promises to free a slave for the reason that it is
compulsory to do so in the event of kaffarah(expiation)where one is required to
free a slave.


NSE,


" Muslim ٢٥٦٨.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٦:


If a person vows to perform religious retreat(I'tikaf)then the vow is valid in tha!


one may perform it as a promised act since it originates from a wajib category.
pyally doy All pe Lally


Vowing to perform a voluntary prayer or fast is valid and after one has promised
them, they become necessary to perform, and equally sadaqah(charity)is alsc
included in this category.


dy cli gS a٢ ٥! days bt Liles of Liles ١٠ ٥b Of


If a person vows a general(unspecified)promise, such as saying, "I swear by Allah
that upon me is a two rak'ah prayer," then he is required to fulfil this vow. If on
the other hand one attaches a condition to a promise, such as, "If Allah grants me
a child, I shall feed ten people," then he is also required to fulfil the vow if the
condition or event occurs such as a child. Hence, vowing to fast an unspecified
day or a vow that is subject to a condition are necessary to fulfil.


A ٦ pe si op pS>
The Ruling Of One Who Vowed To Fast The Two Days Of Eid


Loolady be hd ty LANG He ll Olly pti p pe ti ney


Promising to fast both the days of Eid as well as the days of Tashrigq is valid, and
this is the opted view on the matter, though it is necessary to break the fast during
these days mentioned and make up the days later, as Abu Hurairah reported that
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))prohibited fasting two days,
Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha."
٤٤ pall & ol jal qeluo ols
If however one keeps fast on these days(of Eid and Tashriq due to their vow)it is
valid, though it is unlawful.
oshsel nt bey idl J slael YL


That Which Is Disregarded In A Vow And That Which Is Binding
shally pr ly Oy OLS Ges Ltt


Factors that are not binding(and disregarded)as being part of a vow are the
specification of the time, place, as well as the specification of dirhams or a specific
poor person. For example, if one vows to donate a particular dirham or to feed a
particular poor person, one is not obliged to donate that particular dirham or feed
that particular poor person since these specifications in a promise are not binding,
though the act itself must still be carried out. The rationale being that it is the
pious action that brings one closer to Allah which is the aim, it is not the time,
place or person, and for this reason, the time, place or person are disregarded in
the vow.


" Muslim ١١٣٧.

