٢٩٨ BOOK II: FUNERALS


call fo LATE LN gol


The One Most Entitled To Lead The Funeral Prayer
Sue ٥>١ oth
The sultan(ruler)has the most right to lead the funeral prayer.


١٢
After the sultan, his deputy is the one with the most right. The deputy is the one
the sultan chooses to lead the people in his absence.


oils


Subsequent to the sultan's deputy, the judge is the one with the most right to lead
the funeral prayer because he is in charge with authority and implementation.


lel
Then the imam of the locality(i.e. the imam who is responsible in that area).
Sal


Then the guardian(or the family member responsible for the deceased)provided
it is a male. The female has no right to conduct the funeral prayer and neither a
boy. The father of the deceased has more right to be imam than the son. Abu
Hurayrah narrated the following from the Prophet((God bless him and give hirm
peace))[Three supplications are accepted: The supplication of the oppressed, :he
supplication of the traveller and the supplication of the parents to their child]."


Laatel(a acy dy O٣١ WL pti ٥> oe ne cl)one ee Of o pid OSL Ul past j> I cis


ot ct fee ope ane dae Vy els]The one with the most right to lead the funeral prayer may give permission to
others to lead the prayer. And if others(with the lesser right)lead the funeal
prayer(without permission and in the absence of the ruler and his deputies), them
the one with the most right may repeat the prayer if he wishes. And the peole
who prayed the first time(with another imam)are not required to repeat he
prayer should it be repeated.


ay call Jo cade DL US gol of God led pasta, J oes
The one most entitled to lead the funeral prayer has more right than the perom
whom the deceased instructed in a will to lead the prayer after his death, and he
fatwa issued is according to this view. The reason this is the case is because he
instructions of the deceased as to who leads the funeral prayer after his death i s


invalid.? Meaning, if the deceased before dying directed someone in the form ¢ a
will to lead the funeral prayer and then died, it is of no significance, the leadr s


" Ahmad ٢/٥٢٣.
? Maraky al-Falah, ٣٣٤.


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٩٩


with authority to lead the prayer as earlier mentioned are still more entitled to
lead the prayer. Though some scholars mentioned that if the people agree to him
being imam, then he is more entitled, for verily Umar instructed Suhaib to
perform the funeral prayer and Umm Salamah instructed Said Ibn Yazid to pray
over her and Abu Bakr directed Abu Bardah to perform the prayer over him and
A'ishah directed Abu Hurairah to perform the funeral prayer over her. Scholars
of this view say, "So as for the saying that the will or instruction after death is
invalid — this is disregarded.""
fanny Jae pee daly cond fe pe he A ٣ a١,

If the deceased is buried without a funeral prayer performed over him, then it is
to be offered over his grave, even if the deceased had not been washed, provided
the body has not begun to decompose; and this is determined by a person's
predominant belief. And if there are only seven people present to perform the
funeral prayer, then they should form three lines. That is, the imam stands alone
at the front followed by three people in the first line behind him. This is followed
by two people in the second line and one person is to form the last row. This is


because the hadith clearly states:[If three rows pray upon a deceased, he is
forgiven))]."


daly ٥٩٣ Ud Fler >
The Ruling Of Multiple Funeral Prayers At The Same Time
PVG Lai pig Sol lee IS Salk ts Y SLI carcot fly


If there are several bodies, it is best to perform a separate funeral prayer for each
body. The first funeral prayer is to be performed upon the most pious(and
learned), and then upon the second most pious, and this is the sequence.


PLY lsd JS pws ٠ Sy ere ALA! UL ey gh Lee glare os ge Loy raced dy
If there are several bodies, it is valid to perform a single funeral prayer for all of
them by putting the coffins in a long line closest to the qibla in a way that the


chest of each of them is in front of the imam(i.e. opposite to the imam). See the
diagram below.


LN es hat oo date, OL wally ple! bk dhe jl fans co Al cls
Maintaining the order when placing the bodies in this manner is vital. Verily, the
men are to be placed nearest to the imam, then the boys after the men, then the
hermaphrodites followed by the females, followed by the teenage females. Imam
Hassan related from Abu Hanifa that if all the dead bodies are males, the most


superior and oldest should be placed closest to the imam, and this is also the view
of Imam Abu Yusuf.'


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٥.

? This was mentioned by Ibn Hajar al-'Askalani in Fat'h al-Bari ٣/١٨٧; and Tirmidhi in the
Chapter of Funeral ١٠٢٨[expressed words to that effect]. Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦.


٣٠٠ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS





If the imam prefers he may gather them in a line extending from one side to the
other, horizontally as seen in the diagram below standing near the person who
was known to be most righteous and knowledgeable. "


ea eee ee
YH





law pK Lo lgnsytoly pis lyso Jy


If all the bodies are buried in one grave because of a necessity, they are to be
placed in the opposite arrangement. Note: the opposite arrangement means that
the most superior person who stood closest to the imam and furthest from qibla in
the funeral prayer is placed in the opposite arrangement and is positioned closest
to the qibla at the burial. He is then followed by the one who knows the most
Quran and the knowledgeable as was done with the Shuhada of Uhud. ?


qo sles ٣ adil py ane[rtd PLE ASS hes fb AS Oy ody ce LVL Gack, Vs


Bit aby[SOUL pat


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦.
: Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦-٣٣٧.


BOOK It: FUNERALS ٣٠١


One who arrives late to the funeral prayer and finds the imam(silent)between
two takbirs, is not to join the imam; rather, he is to wait until the imam says the
next takbir and then enter with him and he is to correspond his supplications
with the imams supplications; and after the imam completes the funeral prayer,
the latecomer is to make up what he missed before the dead body is lifted up
from the ground. If one cannot make up what he missed, including the
supplication before the deceased is lifted, then he is to make up only the takbirs
before the coffin is carried upon the shoulders."


don F pam op PLY ٢S be Vs


A person who was present with the imam at the opening Allahu akbar, is not to
wait for the next takbir of the imam before joining; rather, he joins the imam
straight away. For example; a person who was present with the imam at the start
may have become confused in his intention or was just unaware and thus delayed
his entry into the prayer. In this situation, he is to perform the opening takbir and
is considered as having caught the prayer with the imam and he is to give the
finishing salams with the imam, the reason being is that he was there from the
start.'


corel Sead SG pH JS de NESE dey nam oy


Whoever attends the funeral prayer after the imam has given the fourth takbir,
but before the final salams, is deemed as having missed the prayer and this is the
most correct view. However, Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said that one is to
perform the one takbir followed by three takbirs after the finishing salams of the
imam, but before the coffin is lifted. The legal ruling[fatwa]on the matter is in
accordance with this view. The same was maintained in al-Khilas and other books.
As to which is the most correct, the disagreement is evident.'


ab ay tel dl drm Sade Dalle Sy


It is somewhat disliked to perform the funeral prayer within the congregational
mosque with the deceased in the mosque. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[A person who prays over the deceased within the mosque
receives no reward].' There are two reasons for this dislike. The first being that
the mosque was not built for that purpose and the second reason is that the
deceased may soil the mosque, and for this reason, it is disliked.


QU fe doll LI amy am le gl


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٧.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٧.
٩ Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٧.
* Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٢٧٥.


Q٢ Book Il: FUNERALS


Equally, it is disliked to offer the prayer if the deceased is outside the
congregational mosque while some people are inside, and this is the opted view
on the matter, and this is regardless if the imam is outside with the deceased.
Though Imam an-Nasafy held that if the imam is with the deceased outside the
mosque, it is not disliked in the agreed view." Note: It is disliked to perform the
funeral prayer on the road or land of the people.


abe Joy bby a Sel ons


If a newborn displays signs of life by crying or making sounds at birth and
thereafter dies, it is to be named, washed and prayed over. The Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))said[When an infant utters a sound(after birth)prayer will be observed over him].


ade fea dy gba BF J cls AG ee See dol,


If a newborn does not make a sound at birth, it is to be washed according to the
preferred view on the matter and thereafter wrapped in a cloth(named)and
buried with no funeral prayer.


Likewise, a funeral prayer is not performed upon a boy(who was taken captive)along with one of his parents from enemy land[dar al-harb; and the reason is that
he takes the rule of his parents, unless one of his parents converts to Islam, in
which case he is ruled as being joined to the parent, thus making him eligible for
a funeral prayer if he dies; or unless the child himself becomes Muslim; or unless
the child is taken captive without his parents, in which case the child is judged
according to the person who took him captive, or according to the land where the
child resides, which is Islamic land, resulting in a funeral prayer upon death. This
applies even to the extent that if a child(of unbelieving parents)is kidnapped and
taken to Islamic territory where he subsequently dies, a funeral prayer is
performed upon his body. Imam Abu Hanifa withheld his view on fourteen
matters in his life, and one of the matters was the child of disbelieving parents
whether or not the child would be in Hellfire or Paradise, though Imam
Muhammad said the following: "I know that Allah will not punish someone with
no sin."*


ale fal Slasia slip Goll Go Gas ye S > PSs lis Mo al,


If a disbeliever dies and he has a Muslim relative(who is present), then the
Muslim relative is permitted to wash the disbeliever as though he is washing a
filthy cloth. He(the disbeliever)is to be enshrouded in a cloth upon completion of
the wash and placed in a grave or may be given to the people of his religion. This


situation may arise in the event that the disbeliever has no family member


: Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٨.
Ibn Majah ١٥٠٨.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٩.


BOOK IIl: FUNERALS ٣٠


present. In addition, the Muslim should not take great care in performing the
sunan of the washing. The Muslim may follow the deceased body from a distance.
This indicates that it is not possible for an apostate[murtad]to be washed for he
has no creed, thus the murtad is placed in a hole as if placing the corpse of a dog.
Note: The Muslim cannot enter the grave of an unbeliever because the curse may
also descend upon him, and especially at this time, the Muslim is in need of
Allah's Mercy. Ali narrated: I said to the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))"Your old and astray uncle has died." He(the Prophet)said, "Go and bury
your father, and then do not do anything until you have come to me." Therefore,
I went, buried him and came to him. He ordered me to have a bath, so I had a
bath and he supplicated for me]."


tall De J JS Geb pbliy fl Je Ler Vy


Funeral prayer is not to be performed over a rebel even if he was Muslim. A rebel
person is one who rebels against a just Muslim leader, and this is the agreed view.'
And neither over a highway robber who dies in the battle as a result of his actions.


TAL A)pall GIS Ue STL ply


A murderer who killed his victims by strangulating them(is not to be prayed
over)and neither a determined transgressor who would take up arms at night
time as he ventured through the town, provided he dies in that state. With respect
to the murderer, the reason is because he would course the earth spreading


anarchy and ruin.

Vplik Oly dwat J site"s
A person who is killed due to a family feud(or tribalism is not to be prayed over)even if he is washed. This is punishment and insult from Allah and a warning to
others.

ale fay paren[ly
One who commits suicide on purpose and not due to extreme pain is to be washed
and prayed over according to Abu Hanifa and Imam Muhammad, and it is the
soundest view, because the deceased is a believer who has committed a sin.
However, Imam Abu Yusuf held: prayer is not to be performed upon this person.
However, the agreed view is that if it was an error or due to extreme pain, then
the deceased is prayed over."

Mase ayitol pu fe Y


A murderer who killed one of his parents intentionally and unjustly is not to be
prayed over as a punishment for him from Allah.


! Abu Dawud ٣٢١٤.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٠.
٣ Maraky al-Falah, ٣٤٠.


٣٠٤ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


pisos lel ٣ Jad
Carrying The Deceased And The Burial
٨ yh Spe yt gle oly JS)ary Sle)de i lid -


It is sunna for four men to carry the coffin and(each man)is to carry it for forty
steps. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace said))[Whoever carries a
coffin{janaza]forty steps, then forty major sins are expiated from him]." In
addition, Abu Hurairah said[Whoever carried the bier by its four sides, then he
has fulfilled what is upon him].' It is disliked for the coffin to be carried to the
place of burial on the back of a riding beast without an excuse. Additionally, the
coffin of a child is to be carried by one person, though the carrier will be changed
four times.'


Ugercdibe od he pas VI Lao ٥a od ld shen tig OLS Le pire y arey Le cas pet Lay


ade VL et Poly Je VI


As stated, it is sunna for each person to carry the coffin for forty steps. This is
performed as follows: the carrier is to begin from the front right of the coffin
carrying it upon his right shoulder,' — after which he is to(slide backward and)carry the back part on his right shoulder. He is then to carry the front left side of
the coffin upon his left shoulder — and is to conclude his carry with the back part
of the coffin carrying it on his left shoulder. This process would ensure ten steps
on each side, thus equalling forty. Imam Shafi'i said that the sunna is that two
persons are to carry the coffin with the one in front placing it on the base of his
neck and the one behind on the upper part of his chest. The basis is that the coffin
of Sa'id ibn Mu'adth was bourne like this. We would say that this was due to the
rush of angels bearing him.°


cll ol asl WI gob pay et le Le Crees


It is recommended to walk quickly with the coffin without surging forward in a
way that leads to the shaking of the body. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[Be quick with the deceased, for if it was(a person who was)righteous, then you forward it to welfare, otherwise, you put off an evil thing
down from your necks].° The sunna is to walk at a quick pace, but not the pace
that leads to the shaking of the body.


" Ibn 'Asakir in his History, ٢٧/٨١[Maraky al-Falah ٣٤١].

? Abdur-Rizak in his Musnaf ٣/٥١٢[Maraky al-Falah ٣٤١].

٣ Maraky al-Falah ٣٤١.

* Note: the front right of the coffin will be on the left hand side of the carrier, because the
deceased is placed onto his back. To further explain: there is only one side at the front whereby
one can place the coffin upon his right shoulder whilst moving forward with the coffin.

٥ At-Tabagat of Ibn Sa'id[Al-Hidayah].

® Muslim ٩٤٤.


BOOK It: FUNERALS ٣٠٥


Sell fe oo Ie pass aL SU oe frail yale Lolly


Walking behind the coffin is superior than walking in front of it, just like the
obligatory prayer is superior to voluntary prayer. Ali((God be pleased with him))said[By the One who sent Muhammad with the truth, the greatness of walking
behind the coffin over walking in front is like the greatness of the obligatory
prayer over a voluntary one]."


SL pall by ٠ Sey
The audible remembrance of God is disliked when carrying the coffin. This


includes audible recitation of Quran, for verily upon the people is silence or
inaudible remembrance. There is no harm in weeping silently. And even to
remind those of death should not be observed. The saying behind the coffin[janaza]: "Every living shall thing die" is an innovation. And it is disliked for
women to join."


lprney J٣ stl


It is disliked to sit before the coffin has been placed from the shoulders of the
carriers. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whenever you
see a funeral procession, stand up until the procession goes ahead of you or until
it is put down].* Another hadith in Bukhari states that the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[When you see a funeral procession, you should
stand up, and whoever accompanies it should not sit until the coffin is put down]."


Lm DIS ٥ Lye ydrall Ugh UU Vaias pill pasty


The grave is to be excavated to a depth of half the height of a man's body or to
the height up to his chest if one was standing, and if one excavates the depth
further, it is better.


There are two types of graves - the first type is known as /ahd, which is a grave with an
empty space dug into the side of the bottom of the grave, which is toward the


direction of prayer and is large enough for the body. See the diagram.


The second type is shag, which is a simple trench down in the middle of the floor
of the grave, with low block walls raised along the trench sides, in which the
deceased is placed before the ceiling of the wall is enclosed.


" Transmitted by Abdul-Razzagq in his writing ٣/٤٤٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٢.

* Bukhari ١٣٠٧, Muslim ٩٥٨.

* Bukhari ١٣١٠.


٣٠٦ BOOK II; FUNERALS


The Lahd-
in cross section





By y IG Ge Vy eeky


The deceased is to be buried in a lahd grave not in the shaq type(as it is superior).
Though if the earth is soft, it is preferable to use the shaq grave. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The /aAd is for us, and the shaq is for


others}."
ALI Age oye Coll forty


The body of the deceased is to be inserted into the grave from the direction of the
qibla with imam Shafi'i disagreeing. In his view, the body is to be pulled in from
the feet of the grave due to the report that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))was placed like this. The Hanafis maintain that the side of the qibla is
revered, therefore, it is recommended to insert the body from this direction. The
Hanafi argument is based on the narration in al-Bayhaqi that the Companions
placed the Prophet in his grave from the side of the qibla. Though al-Bayhagqi
maintains that this is a weak tradition. It may however be noted that at-Tirmidhi
recorded a tradition on the authority of Ibn Abbas that the deceased should be
placed in the grave from the side of the qibla. It is therefore evident that there is
difference of opinion on the matter."
pews dohe ath fro atl Spey Vw abe Jey ctl eas: aatly J pir

The person placing the body in the grave is to say, "In the name of Allah and
according the religion of the Messenger of Allah, may the blessings of Allah be upon him."
And it is of no harm whether there is one or two persons placing the deceased at
the bottom of the grave. Though the sunna is that they be an odd number."





" Abu Dawud ٣٢٠٢.
٢ « Awn al-Ma'bad, vol, ٣, ٢٠٥-٠٦. Abu Dawud, vol ٢, ٩١٣.


٣M araky al-Falah ٣٤٣.

