BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٢٣


pal ise
The Period Of Shortening Prayers
case ght gad shee Jil ٥ ٩ OL pads ei gl the spt a call ge glee pe fo > pats IZ,


The traveller is to continue shortening his prayers until he re-enters his hometown
or until he makes an intention of staying at another town or village for fifteen
days." If one intends to remain for less than fifteen days, or does not intend his
length of stay, and remained for years, then he may shorten his prayers in both
cases for that duration or until he intends. The reason being, that one has not
fixed the intention, so he does not know exactly when he will depart. 'Alqamah
Ibn Kays remained in such a state where he shortened his prayer for years,


Additionally, Ibn Umar((God be pleased with him))stayed on in Adharbijan{oy
six months and continued to curtail his prayers.'


UBM aS eat Y
When Is An Intention Of Residing Not Valid
Lda}call cna dolly UUW AS eal Vy


The intention of residing is not valid in two towns where a person has not
specified only one as a place of residence. For example: one intends he will stay at
Makkah and Madina for ٢٠ days, but does not specify his residence at one of the
locations. In this case, one is required to remain shortening his prayers even
though he has intended twenty days, because he has not specified only one town
where he will reside. The reason is that the intention at two locations implies that
he will be at different locations and this prevents the rule of residence from
operating. The exception is when he intends to spend the night at one of the two


places, in which case he will be become a resident the moment he enters the
location.*


LY pl Wij Gy


Intending the desert as a place of residence is not valid, except for those people
who live in tents as their homes.


w Fl sl b Sad Vs





" For example: a person who has departed Australia for England for seventeen days is legally
regarded as a traveller and is therefore permitted to shorten his prayers on the way to England.
However, he must discontinue shortening his prayers when he arrives at his destination in
England because he has intended a stay of fifteen days or more. /f he intends to stay for less than
fifteen days, then he is to shorten his prayers for this duration. Likewise, upon returning to Australia,
this person is to shorten his prayers on the way, and discontinue upon reaching his hometown.

٢ Abi Shaybah ٢/٢٠٨, al-Zayla'i ٣/١٨٥.

° Abd al-Razzaq and al-Baihagi. Al-Zayla'i, vol. ٢/١٨٥; al-Ayni, vol. ٣/٢٠.

* Al-Hidayah ٢٠٧}Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٢.

