٣٦٤ BOOK IV: FASTING


Olas ٦ ٢ ol oe rrp ooh pad


If one promises to fast the month of Sha'ban and instead fasts the month of
Rajab, it is valid for the reason that the promise to fast is the objective. The actual
month is not required to have arrived, and because one did not wait for the
month to arrive, he has benefited in the rewards, which may have been missed in
the event of death or other reasons.


Say Pola]ji pans yea Se ٨ ٥٢٥


If a person promises to perform two rak'ahs in Makkah and instead prays them in
another city, it is valid and permitted, because the pious act is achieved, not the
place where it was carried out.


٤)ne Ad OF eA ys GLaarlly


Promising to give sadaqah with a specific dirham, but instead donating a different
dirham is valid due to the pious act, and because specifying a particular dirham or
money is not considered as being part of the vow.


gp ody pial ٥)٣ nally


If a person promises to feed or assist a poor person named Umar and instead
opted with Zaid, the vow and pious act is valid, because the meaning of a pious
act involving sadaqah is to satisfy the need of the poor; and this is the intended
meaning without considering the time, place or person. However, this is contrary
to Imam Zufar who said, "One should specify these factors."


٤b poppy[dbase Se Vb)tl Ge oly


If one makes his vow conditional, such as saying, "I swear by Allah if I regain
sound health, I will give sadaqah," which means the promise of giving sadaqah is
based upon a condition, then its performance before the arrival of the condition
does not suffice, since the vow is linked with the condition.


BOoK IV: FASTING ٣٦٥
Ke Vib


Itikaf « Religi fous Retreat »»>"


SISSY Ve ps


The Definition Of I"'tika


tbl ol Lal adh del dl a plig tos j(Ie Wy gl)ey UGY! ya ae as


Its definition is to remain with the intention(of seclusion)in a masjid where the
five daily prayers are performed in congregation. Ali and Hudhayfa((God be
pleased with them))said[There is no religious retreat(I"tikaf)except in a
congregational mosque].'


Des fo ol gal deltas pls Ye G ene i


It is not valid in a masjid where the five daily prayers are not performed in
congregation, and this is the opted opinion on the matter.


٤b Ta as Je yay ey dee G KE AT AU,


I"tikaf for a female is the masjid of her home, which is a place she has designated
for prayer in her home(the place where she customarily performs her prayers).


" Linguistically, I'tikaf means to seclude oneself and remain; such as to say, "This person
'akafa upon the Quran;" meaning that he remained in the state of reciting Quran. And
I'tikaf has been a practice in the masjids from the laws prior to Islam, though Islam
affirmed and established it. And the proof that /"tikaf was practiced in the laws before
Islam is the statement of Allah in the Quran "We covenanted with Abraham and Ismail
that they should sanctify My house for those who compass it round or use it as a retreat, or
bow or prostrate themselves[therein in prayer]."(Al-Baqarah ١٢٥). And another proof that
Islam sanctioned /"tikaf is the establishment of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))whom would retreat the last ten days of Ramadan, until he died and it has been
established that the wives of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))observed
Ptikaf after him.

* Tabarani ٩/٣٠٢. The hadith is deemed mawgu/.


٣٦٦ BOooK IV: FASTING


ASE gl yl
The Types Of I"tikaf
plist BH fe GeV;
There are three types of I'tikaf;
٢٩٥M Seely


١- Necessary type(wajtb)- this type of J'tikaf is that which one vows to do; such as
promising, "I swear by Allah, I shall observe /'tikaf" or "If Allah cures the illness
of such and such, I shall observe I'tikaf." Fasting is conditional when observing
this type of /'tikaf To spend less than one day in this type of /"ttkaf is not
permitted.


Shae, cpp pM tall G٨٥ ye US ty


٢- The second is sunna mu'akkada(an emphasized sunna)in the last ten days of
Ramadan. This type of /'tikaf is sunna kifaya, meaning that it is a communal


sunna.
ol gw Ww wwe ٩


٣- The third type is that which is recommended any other time of the year apart
from the above two types.


Fasting is a condition only for the vowed J"ttkaf,(which is the wajib type


mentioned above, not the voluntary type). Note, there is no vowed I"tikaf unless one
orally expresses it, because it is linked with the tongue, though this is not the case
with the intention because the place for that is the heart. The Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))said[There is no I'tikaf without a fast]." This means that
fasting is conditional for the wajtb form of I'tikaf on the basis of unanimous
narration.


ay gall fo Lbs IS hyo ٣ pe Bae AS ally


The shortest period for the recommended /"tikaf is any duration of time according
to Imam Muhammad. This is established by remaining for a moment with the
intention of J'itkaf even if one does this while walking through the masjid, and the
fawa given is in accordance with this view. Though according to Abu Hanifa, the
stortest period for making /"tikaf is one day. According to Imam Abu Yusuf, it is
the greater part of the day.


" Darqutani and al-Baihagi.


BOooK IV: FASTING ٣٦٧


When Is It Permissible To Exit The Masjid In I'tikaf?[WS ch eh y dre play yy no MIS dnb Pit de ied Ware EV,
alal ٣ ٥ ٩< aS


A person in I"tikaf is not to leave the masjid except for a legal need such as the
Friday prayer or to answer the call of nature, such as urinating, or because of
necessity, such as the collapse of the masjid. In addition, one may leave if he is
coerced by an oppressor or because his family members have been separated and


he is required to attend to them.
Ab Le oye ٠ pb Nee fod op plKU packs shai ley,


If one fears for himself or his goods from a rebel, then he is permitted to leave
and enter another masjid immediately after leaving the first one; and one must not
engage in anything except in the travel to the other masjid.


٠b & ply rls And pe WH dele & > Of


If one exits the masjid for any duration of time without a valid reason, the wajib
form of I"tikaf becomes invalid and other types of J'tékaf such as the voluntary type


is deemed over(that is, it has come to an end due to leaving the masjid).
dread J She sina)be U pat odie y an gigas ty Kall ISI,


The person performing I"tikaf is permitted to eat, drink, sleep and to form a
contract for the purpose of trade for himself or family, a contract which he or his
family are in need of; this is to be performed only within the masjid. This is owing
to the fact that if one leaves the masjid for this reason it would spoil the retreat. It
is therefore permitted with dislike.


Al-Hidayah states that eating, drinking and sleeping are to take place at the
location of the /'tikaf. The basis for this is that there was no place of abode for the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))except the masjid. Further, it is
possible to meet these needs in the masjid, and there is no necessity of coming out
for them.!


" Al-Hidayah ٣٤٣.

