٣٥٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


that one dies and was not in an able position to make up days, then he is not
responsible. Note: If the deceased left no instructions for the fidya(fee)to be
taken from a third of his estate, then it is not necessary that the fidya be given on
his behalf. If however, someone wishes to volunteer, then it is accepted. The fidya
is half a measure[sa']of wheat, or its value for each day of fasting.


sLadl J gil b pa Vs


It is not a stipulation to make up the fasts of Ramadan successively, i.e. one day
straight after the other, joining all the days together. However, it is permitted to
do so. It is also permitted to make up the missed fasts intermittently from time to
time. In saying this, it is recommended that the fasts be made up successively and
not be delayed more than they have to; in order to make haste in pious actions,


Note: the types of fasting are eleven. Eight are mentioned in the Quran, four of
which are to be done successively and four which are permitted to be done
intermittently; and then there are three types which are established through the
sunna. As for the four that are to be performed successively, they are: ١)the
performance of the current Ramadan at hand as Allah said[Whoever witnesses
the month is to fast}." ٢)For the expiation of dhihar as Allah said[Anyone who
cannot find the means must fast for two consecutive months].' ٣)Killing someone
accidentally as Allah said[Anyone who cannot find the means is to fast for two
consecutive months].' ٤)For an oath as Allah says[Anyone without the means to
do so should fast three days. That is the expiation for breaking oaths when you
have sworn them].' Indeed, it is stipulated that such fasts be done successively.


As for the types that are permitted intermittently, they include: ١)the make-up[gada]of Ramadan as Allah says[But if any of you are ill or on a journey, should
fast a number of other days].° ٢)The fidya of shaving for the muhrim as Allah says{If any of you are ill or have a head injury, the expiation is fasting, or sadaqa, or
sacrifice].° ٣)The fidya for ¢amattu' as Allah says:[Anyone who comes out of ihram
between umrah and hajj should make whatever sacrifice is feasible. For anyone
who cannot, there are three days fast on hajj and seven on your return, that is ten
in all].' ٤)The recompense for hunting in the state of ihram as Allah says[.or
expiation by feeding the poor or fasting proportionate to that, so that he may taste
the evil consequences of what he did].°


" Quran ٢:١٨٥.
: Quran ٥٨:٤.
* Quran ٤:٩٢.
* Quran ٥:٨٩.
: Quran ٢:١٨٤.
z Quran ٢:١٩٦.
" Quran ٢:١٩٦.
* Quran ٥:٩٥.

