BOOK II: PRAYER ٩٤٧


Furthermore, the text clearly states that the doubt is concerned with the number
of rak'ahs offered, which indicates that if a person for example doubts in the
second rak'ah of the dhusr prayer that he is praying the 'asr and in the third rak'ah
that he is offering a voluntary prayer and in the fourth rak'ah that he is engaged
in the dhuhr, the Hanafi scholars held that he is performing the dhuAr prayer, and
that the doubt is not given consideration in this regard; and this is maintained in
al-Bahr." Moreover, if one doubts whether he has offered prayer or not and the
time of prayer remains, one is required to pray.'


Sally opi OLY]sony Y ae ey SLE gh


If a person's doubt arises after the finishing salams of prayer, then it is
disregarded unless one is certain he has left out an act, namely, a necessary
element, in which case one must make up what he omits. Maraky al-Falah states. If
after the completion of the prayer, one is informed by an upright person that he
has left out a rak'ah, yet the person who offered the prayer is certain that he had
completed it, then the information is disregarded, though if two upright people
inform the person that he has left out a rak'ah, then their information is enacted
upon. And if the imam who lead the prayer differs with those who prayed behind
him; and the imam is certain, then the saying of the followers is disregarded,
though if the imam is not certain, then their saying is accepted.*


PYG Sel yb I be J op cb She foe Ltt So,


If a person's doubt occurs frequently, he is to base his decision upon his
predominant view. If one does not have a predominant view, then he is to take
with the minimum that he knows he has performed and continue from that point.
The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "If someone was forgetful
in prayer, and does not know whether he prayed one rak'ah or two, then he is to
continue from one rak'ah, and if one does not know whether he has performed
two or three rak'ahs, then one is to continue from the second rak'ah, and if one
does not know whether he has prayed three or four, then he is to continue from
three, and one must perform prostrations of forgetfulness before the salams."


OMe ST igb aS)[Saw iy
In the case of continuing from the minimum, one is to adopt the sitting posture(and recite the tashahhud)at each occasion that he believes to be the end of his


prayer so that he does not become like one who is neglecting the obligation of the
sitting posture."


" Hashia Ibn Abidin ٥/٣٩٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨١

: Maraky al-Falah ٢٨١.

* Tirmidhi ٣٩٨.

* Al-Hidayah ٨٢ / Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٢.

