١٨٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


When the sun moves from its peak at mid-day, both Eid prayers become invalid if
the prayer is being offered at such time.


inet! § pall ٥ y Syt>٥


When the 'asr prayer time enters on Friday, the Friday prayer is void and can no
longer be performed as the Friday assembly prayer. This may have been due to
the imam extending his speech or because they began late. If they begin and 'asr
time enters, the Friday prayer is void.


tt opal b yin
If a splint(or bandage)falls off a healed injury, the prayer is deemed nullified.
jadall pte Sly٥٤


When a person who is exempt[ma 'dhur]no longer suffers from his condition, the
prayer is void. In other words, when the reason of what caused one to be exempt
no longer exists, there his prayer becomes invalid. Note: ma 'dhur is the term used
to define a person who suffers from a chronic illness, such as continuous bleeding
from the nose or other illnesses that prevent one from maintaining wudu and
offering the prayer. This person is excused and permitted to pray even when the
condition is present in prayer. However, if such a person ceases to suffer from his
illness, the prayer is void.


onb anna lise Sadly
The prayer is void if one intentionally breaks his wudu or because his wudu


breaks due to the actions of another. For example, a fruit may have fallen from a
tree onto his head and blood flowed as a result.


Ostls LEW
Fainting or a fit of insanity in prayer renders it void.
pret sf ky ULL,


Discharging sperm due to staring at a sexual object or because of a sexual dream
while asleep nullifies the prayer. An example with respect to the first point is
looking at something inappropriate or at one's wife while praying.


Ugrele]٥ phy fle Wy dowre Ks SF da F BS fda tills Bro ٩ Sigel idles
If a man stands alongside a woman who arouses sexual desire - in a complete
prayer" that both are participating in(that is — they are joined under the same opening
takbir)in the same place with no screen between them, and the imam had
intended to lead her prayer in his intention at the opening takbir, then his prayer
is void. If the imam does not include her in his intention, then it is of no harm, for
her prayer is not permitted.


" A complete prayer is one that includes bowing and prostration. This therefore excludes
the funeral prayer.

