BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥١


Wed


The Sunan Of Prayer


Sunna in literal terms means way or path. Technically, it means the path taken in
religion without obligation to do so. Another definition maintains that it is what is
requested by the Lawgiver without a decisive command or it is that which was
performed by the Prophet in a manner he was diligent upon and did not leave
except for a reason. Neglecting a sunna in prayer, even if it is deliberate, does not
invalidate prayer and prostrations of forgetfulness are not required. However, if
one intentionally omits a sunna, it is an offence and this offensiveness is worse
than mere dislike. The individual is rewarded for performing a sunna and
reproached for leaving it with a small sin. Indeed blame is easier than
punishment.


Oph y Sim]Ay
The sunan of prayer are fiftyone;
٣ on Kd Veldny dey Jo MU OuS I eli dey pe sal ai,
To raise the hands for the opening Allahu akbar to the level of the ears for a man
and slave, is sunna for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))would perform this[When beginning the prayer, the Prophet would give
takbir and then raise his hands until his thumb came near his ears]." Shafi'i
related a hadith from Ibn Umar who said[I saw the Prophet, when he opened
prayer would raise his hands until they were at the level of the shoulders]and the


Hanifa Madhhab enact upon this hadith in the event that one is ill. A free woman
is to raise her hands to the level of her shoulders.


qe ty


To stretch the fingers at the opening Allahu akbar is sunna. When raising the
hands for the opening takbir, one should keep the fingers of both hands stretched
and the palms should be facing the direction of prayer as the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))observed.


aol}rly(sacall La! ٤٥ ylasy


It is sunna for the follower behind the imam to say his opening takbir together
with his imam. This is the opinion of Imam Abu Hanifa provided the follower
does not finish saying the name, 'Allah or akbar' before the imam does. It is
therefore closely linked. However, according to the two jurists, it is sunna for the
follower to utter Allahu akbar after the imam has completed the takbir, though
without separation, such that he is to connect the alif in the name of Allah with
the letter r in akbar in the imam's takbir(meaning when the imam utters the letter r in
the word akbar, it is sunna for the follower to say Allah at that point).'


" Darqutani, ١/٣٠٠-Abu Yala in his Musnad, ١/٣٨٩.
? Nur al-Idah, ٨٩ / Maraky al-Falah, ١٤٦.


١§٥٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


AS sale Jo ped aS sb Jat Ul aus I die ٥ pe CZ ٥ pall fo palo Jo adios
dot de ele Wy pad ale os II


It is sunna for a male to place his right hand over his left hand under the navel.
Ali((God be pleased with him))said[Verily, it is from the sunna to place the right
hand over the left under the navel]" and the technique of this placement is to
place the inside of the right hand over the top part of the left hand, forming a
circle with the little finger and thumb around the wrist.


GIF pdb ye La se Jo bee I A ants


It is sunna for a female to place her hands on her chest without the formation of a
circle with her hands.


oly


The opening glorification[thana']is sunna, and it is to say: 'Glory be to You, O
Allah! And I praise You. Blessed be Your name, and Exalted is Your majesty.
There is no god other than You.'[Subhanaka Allahuma wa bi-hamdika, wa tabaraka
ismuka, wa ta'ala jadduka wa lailaha ghayruka|. This is also referred to as the
opening supplication or the opening praise.
ool a ٣ pol ٣

To seek protection in Allah from the accursed Satan for the recitation of Quran is
sunna. This is known as the fa 'awwudh. And the one who arrives late to prayer is
to recite the ta'awwudh during his make-up actions for the reason that he must
recite Quran for himself, in which case it is sunna for him to observe this. Allah


the Exalted said((When you read the Quran, seek God's protection from Satan
the rejected one))."


٤S)JS Syl ioctl y


To say, Tn the name of God, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate,' at the beginning of
every rak'ah before the Fatiha is sunna. This is termed the tasmtyya. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would begin his prayer with 'Bismillahi
Rahmani Rahim,' and the saying that this is wajib is weak.'


cult,


It is sunna to say, 'Amin' after the Fatiha for the imam, follower and the one
praying alone.'
doer! ٣


" Darqutani ١/٢٨٦.

: Quran ١٦:٩٨.

> Maraky al-Falah ١٤٧.
* Maraky al-Falah ١٤٧.

