BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٩


sua)! tal gy
The Etiquette of Prayer |Adab
ASN bib hen oye SAS Sor hal belal oy


It is from the etiquettes of prayer for a man to withdraw his hands from his
sleeves at the commencement of the opening Allahu akbar.[dae ene My Lette ٠ ram Sy Lele aah ٢٥١ Sy LAST pal al SLs[BU oo pre ad ye St rally


It is recommended to look at the area of prostration when standing; at the top
part of the feet when bowing; at the tip of the nose when in prostration; at the lap
when sitting and at the shoulders when giving the final salams. This is
recommended for both male and female, the intended aim being to protect
oneself from distraction. If one is blind or in darkness, then he should reflect
about the greatness of Allah. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Worship Allah as though you see Him, but if you are unable to(acquire this
level as though you)see Him, you should place in your mind that He sees you]."


car! L Stl t٢٣


It is recommended to resist coughing as much as one is able to. If one coughs for
no reason, prayer is nullified.


SUI sre and has y


It is recommended to keep the mouth closed when yawning, even if one must
grab his lips with his teeth, and if one is unable to do so, then he should cover his
mouth with his hand or sleeve. And if one covers his mouth with his hand or
sleeve, even though he has the ability to grabs his lips with his teeth, then it is
disliked. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Yawning in
prayer is from Satan, so if anyone yawns, then he should close his mouth as much
as he is able].'


CHW ee: LB ce phil
It is recommended for the imam and people to stand for the prayer at the time


the caller says, 'come to success' — for the reason that the caller is giving an order to
come forth, and it needs to be answered.


It is recommended that the imam begin the prayer when the caller says, the prayer
is commencing' according to Imam Muhammad and Zufar, whereas Abu Yusuf
stated that it is valid to begin once the call to commence the prayer(igama)has
finished as held by the majority of scholars in the Hanafi Madhhab.


" Bukhari ٥٠.
? AtTirmidhi, The Book of Prayer ٣٧٠ | Muslim.

