١٤٢ BOOK II: PRAYER
Uaar—e lejlal,


The pillars must be performed while one is conscious. This is conditional for the
validity of prayer.


pled olizely ٢ pM Ladd ys joes amy fe ٢d ٩ pill Sad oo gb Ley SLI LES Hany
٩ am, SEY p>


In order for the prayer to be valid, it is conditional to have full knowledge of the
procedure of prayer and all its obligatory characteristics, a knowledge which
allows a person to differentiate these characteristics from the sunna
characteristics. One must also have conviction that the prayer being offered is
obligatory, so that he does not perform a voluntary prayer instead of an
obligatory one; and so that he does not believe that the total of four rak'ahs at
dawn are all obligatory, or that the three rak'ahs at maghrib followed by the two
sunna making five in total are all obligatory. The reason this is essential is
because a voluntary prayer can be achieved with an obligatory intention, but not
vice versa.


Beall Os I
The Pillars Of Prayer "
dey)ot Sal ٢٢ OIS Vy
From the conditions mentioned above, four are regarded as pillars; they are:
Ags jade pe > add! ١٥٩ ogres ٦٩٥ ys del ally Lal
١- Standing in prayer, ٢- Recitation of Quran, ٣- Bowing[ruku]and ٤- Prostration[sujud]. It has been said that the last sitting remaining the time equi
reciting the tashahhud is also a pillar of prayer. equivalent to





" Note: It is important to understand the difference between conditions[shart]and pillars[rukun]. There are similarities and differences between the two. The difference oes th

two is that a pillar element is always part of the act, while the condition is external t
For example: bowing is a pillar of prayer and is part of it, while ablution is a condition an
is external to it. Another example is the one performing hajj; for one must first satisfy th

condition of being in the state of ihram before he can proceed to one of its pillars ack e
the standing at Arafah. , a


sali bs!
Conditions Of Prayer
acowe pl yl b pt ono y Ug le ONS Le gay Dall Gey SN dona bo pte bal Gly


The remainder are conditions, some of which validate the entrance into prayer,
and these are observed prior to prayer, such as purity from filth, covering one's
nakedness, facing qibla, the arrival of the time of prayer, intention and the
opening takbir, while other conditions validate the continuance of the prayer,
such as recitation of Quran whilst standing, to delay prostration until one has
performed the bowing and to be awake and conscious. Therefore, there are four pillars
of prayer, and anything besides this is either wajib, sunna or conditional.


al by Ses py ٥٣
Branches Associated With The Conditions Of Prayer
sbi b » jlart
That Which Is Associated With The Condition Of Purity
re Jeg lb Le agen yc dd fe all ٥ ٩٧


Prayer is permitted upon libd(which is anything that is thick and possible to be
split into two with its length and breadth remaining, such as a wooden board or
plank)with the upper part being pure while the part underneath is the filthy side."


wpe pb IS Nil inns allay plb OS Jey


Prayer is also permitted on a clean cloth(or an item of clothing)with the upper
part being the clean side while the inside layer(or lining)is the filthy side; this is
provided that the inside layer is not stitched to the outer layer. An example
includes a coat or something similar which normally has an inside lining that is
connected to the outer layer via slight stitching on the edges, though is not
completely stitched together. This being the case, if it is placed on the ground and
prayed upon, the upper part being the clean side while the inside layer is the
unclean side, then it is valid because it is like two items on top of each other.
However, if they completely stitched together, then it is deemed as one item and
therefore invalid.


cel fe eS pe etl G bh FZ oly plb Gb Joy


Prayer is also permitted on the clean side of a mat, clothes or carpet even if the
filthy side moves when the clean side does; and this is the most correct opinion.


" Nur al-Idah ٨٤.

