BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٣





pol J acl!
Prayer In A Carriage(Howdah)"
Lidl y sh Gls CIS ol pee ale SAILS SHA fe ford! Gall,


Prayer in a carriage, which is fixed upon a beast, is regarded like prayer on its
back, and it is the same whether the beast is moving or still.[BU ab tay AI ened NU es OS ٢ Sal ٨ gs Lt ell cS ar


If one stops the beast and places logs underneath the carriage so that the base of
the carriage is leaning on the ground using the logs as pillars, the carriage is
regarded as having the same status as the ground, and in this situation, it is
correct to perform the obligatory prayer standing in the carriage, not sitting.


aid! Gall ٣ oad
Ritual Prayer On A Ship(Boat
Spry ٦ ٥ Dh dem Gl re deme ple WH el Sake py yd ٢ wll de


Offering obligatory prayer on a moving ship in a sitting posture without having a
reason to sit, is valid according to Abu Hanifa' and one is to offer the prayer
through bowing and prostration while sitting. One cannot pray through nodding.
The reason this is permissible according to Abu Hanifa is because to stand while
in a ship usually entails dizziness. However, the best thing is either to stand and
pray or exit the ship if one is able because this will distance one from any
disagreement.'

CIPD! fe ssa pues | I Ny AS shally APY yay ere oe VI ened VYUy
However, Imams Abu Yusuf and Muhammad held that one is not permitted to sit
unless he has a reason to do so, and this is the most evident opinion; and a valid
reason may include dizziness or being unable to exit the ship. Therefore,
according to the jurists Abu Yusuf and Muhammad, one is to pray standing in the
ship unless there is a reason, in which case he may offer it sitting. The proof they
used are the words of the Prophet[Pray standing(in a ship)except if you fear
drowning]."


Gat lab led ٥٥٨ Ys


One is not permitted to offer prayer in the ship through indication(nodding)if he
is able to bow and prostrate, and this is agreed upon.


" A howdah is a carriage that is positioned on the back of camels or elephants for travellers to
journey in.

? Even if one is able to exit the ship onto land, the prayer is correct. However, if one is able to
exit the ship, it is better in order to avoid the varying views of scholars and be content at heart[Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٠].

> Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٠.

* Al-Hakim ١/٤٠٩ and al-Baihaqi ٣/١٥٥.

