٢٥٨ BOOK II: PRAYER
dnatl Lo UL


The Friday Prayer
dat! Al pl by

Conditions That Obligate The Friday Prayer

Aah hae ٤h paced ope Je ne ٢ dead Be
The Friday prayer is individually obligatory upon one who satisfies seven
conditions. It is established in the Quran, Sunna, and Consensus of the scholars(ijma). The one who rejects it is a non-believer. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said((Bear in mind that Allah has made compulsory for you the
Friday prayer at this place of mine, on this day of mine and during this month of
mine and in this year of mine, until the Day of Resurrection. He who abandons it
during my lifetime or after, while he has a just or tyrant ruler, making little of it(the prayer)or denying it, Allah will not unite his gathering, nor will He bless his
affairs. Be aware that his prayer will not be valid nor will his zakat or hajj; nor will


his fasting nor his virtues be accepted as long as he does not repent. So he who
repents, Allah will restore for him His grace(and forgive him))."


Aneto yrs by
Conditions That Render The Friday Prayer Obligatory
٤ Aly ٨, Sil


١- One must be male(therefore excluding females)and ٢- Freedom(therefore
excludes slaves).


reo ble HUY > belo ya i sl pan LEY,


٣- One is to be a resident in a city or in a place where one is regarded as a resident
of the city, such as living in the courtyard that is adjacent to the city. This is the
correct view. This is the place that if one crossed with the intention of travel, he
would be deemed a traveller; and if one reached this point after returning from
travelling, he would be deemed a resident. Therefore, if one is a resident of a
small town outside the city, Friday prayer is not compulsory on him. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[There is no Friday(prayer), nor the
prayer of Eid al-Fitr or Eid al-Adha except in a city or large town].? The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))also said[The right of the Friday prayer is
upon all Muslims except four: the possessed, the female, a boy and the sick]and
in another place in al-Bayhaqi, it states[and with the exception of the boy, the


" Ibn Majah ١٠٨١.
' Al-Baihaqi ٣/١٧٩, Sunan al-Kubrah.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٥٩


possessed and the traveller]." Hence, a person living in a small village outside the
city is not obligated to attend the Friday prayer, but the person living within the
city or a place where he is regarded as being a resident of the city, is duty bound
to attend."

cally


٤ To be of sound health, and free from illness. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[The Friday prayer in congregation is a necessary duty on
every Muslim, with four exceptions; a slave, a woman, a boy and a sick person].*
Friday prayer is not obligatory on the traveller, though if he hears the call, it is
preferred that he attend.

Mb ee YW


٥- Safety from an oppressor is the fifth condition. The Friday assembly prayer is
not necessary upon one who fears an oppressor.


eles


٦- One's eyes must be sound, i.e. to possess the ability of reliable sight. Friday
prayer is not obligatory upon a blind person, according to Abu Hanifa. Though
this is contrary to Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf who said, "If he can find
someone to take him, then he is required to attend."*


cnb- Us


٧- Soundness of one's legs, ie. one must have the ability to walk. Friday prayer is
not compulsory on one who is crippled and this is agreed upon in the Madhhab.°


dactl dove by -
Conditions That Validate Friday Prayer
eLtlinn ood b pty
There are six conditions that validate Friday prayer;
٠٥a gl pall
١- It is to take place in the city or in its courtyard, such as an area used for the


benefit of the people like a park. The performance of the Friday prayer is valid in
many places within the city.


ask sl UaL SI)٢- It is conditional that the prayer be conducted by the sultan as imam, or his
deputy.


" Al-Baihaqi ٣/١٨٣, Sunan al-Kubrah.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٦.

> Abu Dawud ١٠٦٢.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٦.

° Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٦.


٢٦٠ BOOK It: PRAYER


amy ou Seiy LS ei Ws phil ody)٣- It must take place at the time of dhuhr. Anas Ibn Malik said: The Apostle of
Allah((God bless him and give him peace))used to offer the Friday prayer when
the sun declined.' According to Abu Hanifa, Malik and Shafi'i, the time for
Friday prayer is after the sun passes the meridian. It is not lawful before it. It is
not valid before the entry of the dhuAr time and neither after the dhuhr time ends,
which means if one is praying the Friday prayer and the 'asr time enters, the
prayer is nullified.
less J eset li dbs,

٤- The sermon must be before the Friday prayer for the purpose of the Friday
prayer,' and the sermon is to be delivered in its time. If the imam gives the
sermon before its time, it is not valid.


Cereal aly gly teed ge dies opt el tol y wary


From those who are obliged to attend the Friday assembly prayer, there must be
at least one person from amongst them who is able to hear the speech of the
imam, even if it is only one person, and this is the correct view. This is regardless
if he is mute, asleep, or whether he is a slave, ill or a traveller, even if he is in
major impurity and then after the speech performs the major bath, there must be
at least one individual who has the ability to hear the speech.


ell oy,


٥- General consent from the leader is conditional. Indeed, this is from the signs of
Islam and something specific to the religion. If for example, an imam closed the
doors of his castle or the place in which he and his companions pray, then(the
Friday prayer)is not permitted. However, if he permits the people to enter, it is
valid."


> PLY as wr lay b Sy ٥٥ + gl op lan shane Ils lye PUY ne Ske)BW pay dell,
allay ٠٩ yrs bly i OL yc dam o> y[gil ٠d pres aly pt OID ¢ dry


٦- There must be a group present. This is achieved with three men besides the
imam, even if the men are slaves, travellers or are all suffering from an illness. It
is also a condition that they remain with the imam until he performs the first
prostration, and if they leave the prayer after this, the imam is to complete the
Friday prayer. Though if they leave the prayer before this(i.e. before the first
prostration)the prayer is nullified. And even if only one person leaves before the


" Abu Dawud ١٠٧٩.

* This means that the imam must deliver a sermon which is intended for the Friday assembly
prayer. Therefore, if the Imam sneezes and utters the words "al:-Hamdulillah" due to sneezing, it
does not serve as a substitute for the sermon; because these words were not intended for the
Friday prayer, rather, they were for sneezing; and for this reason, the objective of the sermon
must be for the Friday prayer.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٧].

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٨.


BOOK Ii: PRAYER ٢٦١





first prostration and two remain, the prayer is nullified as held by Abu Hanifa,
whereas Imam Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf stated that the three men are
required only for the opening Allahu akbar.


cnn)eo ee Hil pl mai Vy
The Friday prayer is not valid with a female or boy included with two men; three


men are required since women, and boys do not satisfy the conditions that
obligate the Friday prayer.


ped p٥٢ ot pas My tad ley


It is permitted for a slave, ill person or traveller to lead the Friday prayer as the
imam, if he has permission from the leader.


Ny DI Alb Sg Sad cheb yc a ytbl olsy KEW diy oy wly ciel eo ye JS pall,


A comprehensive city, according to Abu Hanifa is a place that has a mufti, leader,
and a judge who implements the law and establishes the hudud(penalties). In
addition, the number of buildings must be equal to the number of buildings in
Mina according to the most evident view. Imam Qadikhan held that this view has


consensus.

Shia ٦ el ete VI gh otal OlS Naty
In the event that the judge or leader is a mufti, then either one is sufficient for all
three roles; i.e. the judge who is a mufti can assume the role of a judge, mufti and


leader. This implies that having one of these persons in an area would render it as
a city provided the buildings amounted to that of Mina.


ited pl(LD pall G parted oiler


The Friday prayer is permitted in Mina during the days of hajj provided it is
conducted by the khalifa or the leader of the Hijaz area.
\grmey dybad|
The Sermon And Its Sunan
dal SUI ps ided shims pod Lo thd b Lad aes
If the imam limits the Friday sermon to that of an invocation, such as one tasbih(Glory be to Allah - Subhan Allah)or one tahmid(All praise be to Allah - Al
Hamdulillah), it is valid, though is disliked because the sunna has not been
fulfilled. Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said; that the sermon must be at
least as long asa lengthy remembrance, long enough to be identified as a sermon{which is at least as long as the tashahhud." Imam Shafi'i maintained that it is not


permitted unless he delivers two sermons that conform to practice. He used as his
basis, the words of Allah[Hasten earnestly to the remembrance of Allah].'





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٩.
? Quran, ٦٢-٦٩.


٢٦٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER
bs Ae ald ddl ny
The Friday sermon consists of eighteen sunan,;(REI day)BY aay Sy OW y SHANG py SI AS fo fo pe gly ٥ yall Ae y Sylghell


١- To be in a state of purification when delivering the sermon is sunna. It is only
deemed sunna and not obligatory because the sermon is not the prayer.


٢- Clothing one's nakedness during the sermon.
٣- To sit upon the pulpit before commencing the sermon.


٤- It is sunna to call the adhan in front of the pulpit, just like the iqama is made in
front of the pulpit after the sermon.


lwlee cows BAL, GG yd ob pe Coed BL YS gate US o Ly actly aol ٦


٥- After the adhan, the imam stands to deliver the sermon leaning on a sword in
his left hand, which is the method observed in all countries that were conquered
by force. Though if the country was taken or occupied peacefully, then the imam
does not adopt the sword. The wisdom of the sword is to show the people in what
way the nation was overcome, and that if the people denounce their Islam, then
that land remains in the hands of the Muslims, in which they may resume
fighting. However, the Madina of the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))was opened with the Quran, and as a result the sermon is given without
the sword."


dey ¢ Al Sims
G- Facing the people is sunna as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed with his Companions during sermon.
abel ya ly ade eLittly dit torn wel
٧- It issunna to begin the sermon with praising Allah(a/-Hamdulillah), followed by
glorification which is befitting for God.
dal ٣
٨- It issunna to declare the two testimonies of faith[shahadatayn].
poh he il fro gill idee Je sally

٩- This is followed by sending blessings upon our holy Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))which is sunna.

Saslly aanlly
١٠/١١- It is sunna to advise the people about abstaining from disobedience to


Allah or to frighten the people about the punishments of the hereafter, and
remind them about their duties to Allah and dealings with others etc.


"M araky al-Falah ٣٠٠.

