BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٥





E> THAI IE Dlg]ae gop Gr sla US y Ball cleil ee LAN I ged all ox gy
If the ship is sailing, one is to direct himself towards the qibla at the
commencement of prayer, and every time the ship veers from the qibla, one is to
re-direct himself towards it throughout the entire prayer so that he completes it
while facing qibla.
etal
Tarawih'
Lely Sle WU dane ce gh jl


The tarawih is sunna for both male and female. Abu Hanifa held it as an
emphasized sunna. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))sald[Upon you is my sunna and the sunna of the rightly guided Caliphs after me};
and verily Umar, Uthman and Ali((God be pleased with them all))were diligent
with respect to the tarawih prayers.


WS i eLLL Ye,


To pray the tarawih in a group is a communal sunna(Mjfaya), i.e. it is a collective
sunna because it has been established that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))offered it in a group as eleven rak'ahs consisting of the witr. Though
he later discontinued to perform the tarawih in a group for fear of it becoming
compulsory.


ge opr liye crs Al fo isl AB prays lial dio de yy
Its time is after the 'sha prayer until the arrival of dawn. And it is valid to offer


the witr before or after the tarawih, though it is best to delay it until after the
tarawih.


wall fe ode be SI lapel oS Vy ata gl PUL UI est Web nes


It is recommended to delay the tarawih prayers to shortly before one third of the
night has passed or just prior to half of it, though scholars recommend tarawih to
be offered before half the night has passed. Other scholars maintain that there is
no dislike in delaying tarawih to after half the night and this is the soundest view
because the best night prayers are at the end of the night; however, even though it





Tarawih is the plural of tarwiha. Lexically, tarwiha is the name given to the one time of rest.
It also implies sitting because this is a rest for the body. In its juristic sense, it is considered
as the rest one has after four rak'ahs. It was called such, because the sitting after the prayer
is rest.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٢].

* Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi.

* Ibn Khuzayma ٢/١٣٨.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٣).

