BOOK II: PRAYER ١٦١





Thereafter, one is to place his right hand over the left hand under the navel
without delay after the opening Allahu akbar, for this is the sunna during standing
according to Abu Hanifa." Then, one is to recite the opening glorification, which
is: "Glory be to You, O Allah, and I praise You. Blessed is Your name, and Exalted is Your
majesty. There is no god other than You." With respect to the placing of one hand over
the other under the navel, this is to be observed even during the opening
glorification or praise, for it is considered a sunna that is part of the standing. The
rule is that each performance of prayer in which words of invocation(ie. dhikr)is
prescribed by the sunna, the hands are to be folded, though not for performance
where such recitation is not prescribed. They are therefore folded in the state of
gunut(supplication), funeral prayer, though are released during the rise from the
bowing and between the additional takbirs of Eid as there is no dhikr or recitation.


jar JS arts
It is sunna upon anyone who prays to begin with this opening glorification


whether it is the imam, his follower or one who prays alone. If however a
latecomer attends the prayer, he is to recite this supplication if the imam has not
begun to recite Quran, whereas if the imam begins reciting, the follower is to
remain silent.


GIANY GB yabhg GL tel aU ٣


One is then to say the ta'awwudh for recitation, saying "I seek refuge with Allah
from Satan the rejected," provided he is the imam or praying alone. This is due to
the words of the Exalted[When you read the Quran, seek God's protection from
Satan the rejected one]. The latecomer to the prayer[masbug]is to say the
ta'awwudh, though the one who begins with the imam[mugtadi]is not to. Note: the
latecomer is to observe the ta'awwudh when he stands to make up what he missed
of the prayer, because he must recite Quran for himself.


PASI ARS ye >


One is to delay the ta'awwudh until after the additional takbirs of the Eid prayer on
the basis that the ta awwudh is for the recitation of Quran and yet recitation comes
after the additional takbirs of Eid.


Lah AU ٥ WS, JS je BN ce ID rms le rte?


Thereafter, one is to silently say, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate." Anas bin Malik(God be pleased with him)reported that the
Prophet, Abu Bakr and Umar used to begin prayer with; All praise be to Allah, the
Lord of all that exists |al-hamdu Lillahi Rabbil 'alamin),' which clearly indicates that


" The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[A part of the sunna is the placing of
the right hand over the left below the navel]. This is recorded by Abu Dawud from Ali(God be
pleased with him).

At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Prayer ٢٤٥.

