٣٤٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


٤٥> SI Lanall eb ٥ las bil I
If one accidentally breaks his fast with the water used for gargling, in that it seeps


down one's throat, then expiation is not imposed upon him.
HILL gly le Se bil J


If one is coerced to break his fast even if it is through sexual intercourse, the
expiation is not imposed.


cl! Je cast sl


If a female is coerced to indulge in sexual intercourse, then the expiation is not
imposed on her.


dm See gh SAS Sal esd oye ٣ FON oye nt fe by & il I
If a married woman or slave breaks her fast for fear of falling ill because of the


duties she performs, then the expiation is not required of her, as the fast is ruined
due to a valid reason.


ell gay ele adge Gtr]wo Jl


If water is poured into the insides of a person who is sleeping, then he is not liable
for expiation, though the fast is void. Note; this person is not like the one who has
forgotten. For example; the one who forgets to mention the name of Allah upon
an animal he slaughters does not render it unlawful to eat. Though if the person is
insane or asleep at the time, then their slaughtered animal is not lawful to eat.
Furthermore, to drink whilst sleep-walking holds the same ruling."
Ce fe ntl ple gh ye Leb alsl ta Lee Jl I

Eating on purpose after eating forgetfully does not impose the expiation even if
one knows the hadith concerning it; and this is the soundest opinion. The reason
the expiation is not imposed is because(eating forgetfully)has a likeness to one
who has broken his fast and this likeness is not over even if one knows the hadith
of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))"The one who eats and
drinks from forgetfulness is to complete his fast."" Furthermore, the hadith is ahad(or transmitted through solitary narration), it is not mutawatir or mash-Aur. It is a
hadith which does not impart affirmative knowledge on its own unless it is
supported by extraneous or circumstantial evidence. The expiation therefore
cannot be imposed on this basis."


Nabe palm od Lael aale gl


If one has sexual intercourse forgetting he is fasting, and then after remembering,
continues to have sexual intercourse intentionally; expiation is not necessary
upon him on the basis of what we have described above, namely that it has a
likeness to breaking one's fast. However, the day is obligatory to make up.


; Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٢.
* Bukhari ١٩٣٣.
> Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٢.

