١٣٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


The fourth part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must utter the opening Allahu akbar to the degree that he can hear himself
according to the correct view.


The fifth part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; the
follower must intend being linked with his imam.


we Al nny
The sixth part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must specify the obligatory prayer being offered. This means, if one wishes to
pray an obligatory prayer, such as the dhuAr or 'asr prayer, then he must intend
that particular obligatory prayer, such as intending to pray the dhuAr for example.
This applies even if the prayer is current or a missed prayer. It is not sufficient to
intend an obligatory prayer without specifying which one. Additionally, this
specification is conditional at the commencement, such that if a person intends a
specific obligatory prayer and then commences it and thereafter forgets and


completes the prayer under the assumption that it is a voluntary one, then it
counts as the obligatory prayer and he is thereby relieved of that obligation.


all ws


The seventh part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is: one
must specifically intend which wajib prayer he is praying, such as the witr prayer,
the rak'ahs of tawaf and a voluntary prayer that was ruined in the past.


JS SSAA,


It is not a condition to specify the intention for voluntary prayer even if it is the
sunna of the dawn prayer.


Sail Se yd lll,
It is conditional and one of the pillars to stand in all the obli
though not for voluntary prayer. gatory prayers,


ve Al PS IU Sy tel Dy


It is obligatory to recite at least one verse of Quran in two rak'ahs of the
obligatory prayer, as held by Abu Hanifa, though Imams Muhammad and Abu
Yusuf held that the minimum is three verses. Allah said[Read of the Quran, as
much as may be easy for you].' This verse commands that some portion of the
Quran be recited during the prayer. It does not confine the obligation to surah al-
Fatiha, but rather indicates that any portion of the Quran can be recited to meet
the obligation. Abu Yusuf and Muhammad said that to memorise the bare


" Maraky al-Falah ١٢٨.
? Muzzammil ٢٠


BOOK ١١: PRAYER ١٣٩


minimum(of what is required for prayer)is individually obligatory(fard 'ain| and the
memorisation of the Fatiha and a surah is wajib upon all Muslims and the
memorisation of the entire Quran is a communal obligation{fard kifaya]."


Poly Jest JS y


It is obligatory to recite Quran in all the rak'ahs of voluntary prayer and in all the
rak'ahs of the witr prayer.


Beall dma)ON A oe og dy


There are no specific verses in the Quran that one must recite in order for the
prayer to be valid. One may therefore recite any verse from the Quran, and the


prayer is valid. Though it has previously been stated that the Fatiha is wajib to
recite.


cman pete b LEY,


The person following the imam in prayer must not recite Quran; rather he must
listen and remain silent whether the imam is reading aloud or silently. Allah said((When the Quran is read, listen to it with attention and remain silent)).? The
Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[The imams recitation is
sufficient for you,(whether he is reciting)aloud or silently].* Also, Abu Hanifa
and his companions as well as Imam Malik and Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal agreed
that the prayer is valid for a follower who does not recite anything behind the
imam. Also, the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[Whoever has
an imam, the recitation of the imam is recitation for the(follower)].'


Imam Muhammad said in a hadith: Isra'il informed us, Musa Ibn Abi A'ishah
narrated to me from Abdullah Ibn Shadda Ibn Had who said, The Messenger of
Allah led the 'asr prayer and a man recited behind him, so the man next to him
nudged him. When he had prayed he said, "Why did you nudge me?" He replied,
"The Messenger of Allah was leading you, so I loathe that you should recite
behind him." Hearing this, the Prophet said, "Whoever prays with an imam, then
the imams recitation suffices for him."° Another narration states: Malik informed
us: Nafi' narrated to us from Ibn Umar that when asked, "Should anyone read
with the imam?" He would say, "When one of you prays with the imam, the
recitation of the imam is sufficient for him," and Ibn Umar never used to read
with the imam.°


le ٠ S١٥ oy


" Maraky al-Falah ١٢٩.

? Al-A'raf ٢٠٤

* Darqutani in his Sunan ١/٣٣١.
'Ibn Majah ٨٥٠.

٥ Muwattah Imam Muhammad ١٢٥.
® Muwattah Imam Muhammad ١١٢.

