٣٢٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


b fay Wey ٦ ab end All Oe bts Ld ua


The Types Of Fast That Requires One To Be Specific In The
Intention Prior to Dawn; And When It Is Not Conditional


Note: there are several types of fasting where a person is required to be specific in
his intention - and to make the intention at night prior to dawn. There are also
other types where this specification is not required.


A pi ed BAL Y sill e pall


The Fasting That Does Not Require A Person To Be Specific In The Intention,
Nor To Form The Intention At Night(Prior To Dawn)٥٠ eed Vy tI es I bALY gil aI LI


As for the type of fasting for which it is not conditional to be specific in the
intention, nor to make the intention at night prior to dawn is when;


Olas; bol


١- One is fasting the month of Ramadan; for indeed, the fast is valid if the
intention is made during the night itself(from sunset)until a short period before
the noontime. Hence, it is not a condition to be specific in the intention, nor to
make it at night prior to dawn.


jess al)pall pasly


٢- It is not a condition when one has vowed to fast a specific day. This means, if a
person has vowed to fast on a particular day, he is not required to be specific in
the intention, nor to make it at night when that day arrives. For example, on
Monday, one vowed to fast on Thursday. Therefore, on Thursday it is not a
requirement to be specific in the intention, nor to form the intention prior to
dawn. The fast is valid with an intention made during the period, which is from
sunset the previous night until just before midday.


٣- Likewise, it is not a condition for voluntary fasts(nafl).
SH y SN anal ¢ lb ya yi tai y ee fo sg tas JF Le Sf op Se Cerner
Gr ٦ penal


These three types of fast' are valid if one makes the intention during the night
itself up to a short time before midday. And the description of this period
"midday" is from the break of dawn until the time before the sun reaches its peak.
This means it is valid to make the intention for the above types of fast from any time from
sunset the night before - up to the midday of the actual day of fasting(prior to the sun"s zenith.


" That is, a)Ramadan, b)a vowed fast which is specified for a particular time and c)nafl.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٢٩


A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported, The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))came to me one day and said, "Is there anything with you(to
eat)?" I said 'no'. Thereupon he said, "I shall then be fasting."'


SH Sle OWS Sy(Leal)fact aay all Glens(fats ccna ly colaey alal ٣ JS)Last evar
cell Gla


These three types of fasts are also valid with a general(unspecified)intention of
fasting or an intention of a voluntary fast, even if the person(who intends them)is a
traveller or sick, and this is the most correct opinion. Meaning, if any person
whether he is a traveller or sick person forms a general intention without
specifying the kind of fast to be observed or an intention for a voluntary fast
during Ramadan, then it counts as Ramadan. The reason this is permissible is
because Ramadan is already in a fixed time and therefore does not need to be
specified and according to the Sacred law; no one can perform other fasts during
Ramadan, except the fasts of Ramadan. In the principles of fiqh, this is termed
wajib Mudayyig. This also applies to a vowed fast which one has specified with
respect to its timing. For example; a person who vowed to fast on Monday can
intend this day as a voluntary fast and the vow of fasting that day is thereby
achieved through this intention. This is because the day has previously been
specified, and for this reason one is permitted to have a general or voluntary
intention.'


rls ce aly ٦ ae Sb BLU Goby ٦ ete bree OS ol eT oly Sy Olas, olal evens


It is valid to fast the month of Ramadan with the intention of performing another
wajib fast, though the wajib fast is not valid. And this rule applies only to one of
sound health or a resident, though contrary to the traveller for the reason that
Ramadan is not compulsory on the traveller, which means if he intends a wajib
fast, such as a vow fast, then whatever he intends of the wajtb fast is accepted and
not Ramadan, as is one narration from Abu Hanifa. Though the two Companions
maintained that it is Ramadan that is accepted.


Obaes gol bart ٥٩ ١٥)aS eee Al ably


There is difference of opinion amongst the scholars about the sick person who
intends another wayib fast during his fasting of Ramadan,(whether the wajib fast
is accepted, or whether it counts as Ramadan). Shams al-A'imma stated that the
soundest view is, 'It is regarded as Ramadan and not the wajib fast, and this is
reiterated in the book al-Burhan. Though Imam Hasan stated that whatever one
intended is what is accepted, and this view was opted by the author of al-Hidaya.°


" Muslim ١١٥٤.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٦٢.
٣ Maraky al-Falah ٣٦٣.


٣٣٠ Book IV: FASTING


Table ١ displays what is and is not fulfilled for a person who intends anothe:
wajib fast during Ramadan whereas table ٢ summarises the different intention:


which are valid for Ramadan.
Table |
Resident and healthy person intending | Ramadan is accepted, whilst the wajib fast
another wajib fast in Ramadan remains outstanding.
Traveller intending another wajib fast in | The wajib fast is fulfilled.
Ramadan
A sick person intending another wajib fast in | Scholars differed as to which is fulfilled.
Ramadan


Table ٢


















Valid with


With the intention of
a voluntary fast.





Ramadan is valid with
the intent to perform
other wajib fast, though
the day is counted as
Ramadan and not the
wajib fast. Applies only
to a resident or one of
sound health


A general
unspecified intention
of fasting.












Performing a vow | A general


unspecified intention
of fasting


Performing a A general intention
voluntary fast


٤ orl ype ol gi ce ats fee one arly dy ile Oualll py tll eas Vy


With the intention of
a voluntary fast





A promised fast which is specified with respect to its timing, such as on ;
particular day is considered unfulfilled if one performs the fast on that day with :
different wajib intention. Verily, what is accepted is the different wajid intentior
intended on the day. Meaning; if a person vowed to fast a specific day, and upor
arrival of that day, this person performed the fast intending a different wajib fast
then what is accepted is the latter, while the original specified fast remains a deb
which must still be fulfilled.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٣١
TS Cd ab b pts Gl ¢ pall


The Fasting That Requires One's Intention To Be Specific,
And To Form It The Previous Night


٨ eg NN i I bp Lt yey GU aL,
As for the second type, it is a condition to be specific in the intention(for the fast to be offered)the previous night prior to dawn. This is required,
Siasjelas
١- When one is making up an unperformed Ramadan(that is, gada).
AB cps otntl Lb olay
٢- When one is making up a ruined voluntary fast,(that is, the gada of nafl).
Wet gl AUS » poy


٣- When one is performing the expiation fasts(kaffarah), as well all the other types
of expiation fasts such as the expiation of breaking an oath.


Lets! fea cee pe Leb city ye all ae Of: a)a٥ Glall ji,


٤ It is also conditional when one vows to fast in a general way, such as the saying
"If God alleviates my illness, then I will fast a day" and thereafter he regains good
health. Hence, when this person decides to honour this day, he is required to be
specific in his intention and make it the previous night prior to dawn.


ope AL ٦ pe ٣٩ SM ٢ ٤(ei oad
Sighting The Moon And Fasting On The Day Of Doubt
Ola, Jao yt
Establishing The Moon Of Ramadan
JB oe O! EW Shas ay sl Je ٤٥ y Oar Od


Ramadan is established when the moon is sighted. And if the moon is not visible,
the people are to complete the month of Sha'ban as thirty days and then begin
fasting. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[Fast when you see
it, and break your fast when you see it and if the weather is cloudy, calculate it(ie.
the month of Sha'ban)as thirty days]." Note: The lunar months consist of either
twenty-nine days or thirty days. If the sky is clear, the people begin and end
fasting with the sighting of the new moon and if the sky is overcast then they have
been instructed to complete thirty days of Sha'ban and thereafter begin the
fasting.


" Muslim ١٠٨٠.

