١٢٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


٣/ when the sun draws near to setting until it sets(that is, from when it changes
colour and its rays appear weak and pale until it sets).


Ugqbah Ibn Amir said[There were three times at which the Apostle of Allah used
to forbid us to pray or bury our dead. When the sun begins to rise until it has
completely risen, when the sun is at its height at midday till it passes the
meridian, and when the sun draws near to setting till it sets]."


Al-Ikhtiyar states that: i)prayer, ii)the prostration of Quranic recital and iii)the
funeral prayer are not valid at the time when the sun is rising and when it is at its
peak and when it is close to setting except the 'asr prayer which is performed when
it is setting. The reason this is the case with respect to the 'asr is due to the words
of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Whoever offered a rak'ah
of the 'asr prayer before the sun sets, then indeed he has caught it].' Al-Hidayah
also mentions that a severe warning is issued with respect to the 'asr prayer in a
tradition recorded by Imam Malik in which the time close to sunset has been
described as one where "The sun is between the horns of Satan." Hence, offering the
prayer at this time is offensive, though the obligation is lifted. This is not the case at
sunrise or at the time of the sun's zenith, for the prayer is not valid in these times. Imam
Shafi'i maintains that the prayer is not nullified.' Maraky al-Falah states that if one
is engaged in the dawn prayer and the sun rises, the prayer is void.


Bal SN ar rg AN ee gyal pe Cee(٥ Uped Solt Tiny Se par FLAS Al SI a gcd Gory otal ene y


It is however permissible to perform that which becomes obligatory in that time,
though is disliked, such as a funeral prayer that occurred in that time or a
prostration verse that was recited in that particular time, not before it.' Likewise,
it is permissible to offer the 'asr prayer of that day at the time of sunset, even
though it is disliked. However, one is not permitted to offer the 'asr of the previous
day in that particular time.'


Mil plall oaS ٩ SANS ae BIS ٣.٥ op F Mal S AI gad ٠ SS SMI SUSI,


During these three times, it is prohibitively disliked[makruh tahriman]for a person
to perform voluntary prayer, even if there is a reason for it, such as a vowed
prayer, the prayer of tawaf, the prayer of wudu or the prayer of greeting the
mosque(tahiyyah).


Cs dary cee oy ASL all ¢ gb ae Lele Sy


" Abu Dawud ٣١٨٦.

? Bukhari ٥٧٩ and Muslim, ٦٠٨[Al-Ikhtiyar ٦١].

* Al-Hidayah ٨٩.

* This means that if a person recites one of the verses of prostration in the forbidden time, then
it is valid if one performs its prostration in that time. If however, a person recites the verses of
prostration before the forbidden time i.e., in a permissible time and does not observe the
prostration, and instead waits until the forbidden time enters, he is not permitted to observe it.

> Usul al-Figh-Muhammad al-Khudari.


BOOK ١١: PRAYER ١٢٩


When the dawn time arrives, it is disliked to offer voluntary prayer with the
exception of its sunna(meaning when fajr time arrives, one is only to pray the
sunna of the fajr and to offer more is disliked). It is also disliked to offer voluntary
prayer after the dawn prayer.


passlio dey


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer after the 'asr prayer even if the sun has not
yet changed colour. This is due to the hadith that the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[There is no prayer after the prayer of 'asr until the sun
sets, and there is no prayer after the fajr until the sun rises]."


v Allie Jos


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer before the sunset prayer(maghrib). The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Between the two calls is a
prayer if one desires, except the maghrib].'


Beall oy ٦ pe gm hdl oy > ey


It is disliked to perform voluntary prayer at the time the imam emerges to
conduct the Friday sermon until he has completed the prayer. It is disliked on the
basis that to listen to the imam is obligatory and to instruct good whilst the imam
is conducting the sermon is not lawful.' The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said((If you said to your companion 'quiet' and the imam is giving
the sermon, then you have indeed commit an evil act)).' This rule applies even if it
is the sermon of Eid, hajj, marriage, upon the conclusion of completing the
Quran, the lunar eclipse and when seeking rain.'


Some may argue that there was an incident at the time of the Prophet concerning
Sulayk al-Ghatafani which is as follows; Once, while the Messenger was sitting on
the pulpit waiting to begin the sermon, a companion named Sulayk Ibn Hudba al-
Ghatafani entered the masjid in his torn clothing. The Messenger after seeing his
poverty stricken state, ordered him to stand and pray. He did this so that the
other Companions could also observe his condition. The Messenger remained
silent until he had finished his prayer; then after seeing that the other
Companions had noticed him, he encouraged them to contribute to him, which
they did with open hearts. It is clearly evident that this was a special circumstance
and cannot be generally applicable as it was issued only once to this particular
Companion.


" Bukhari ٥٨١.

* Tabarani in his Awsat ٨/١٧٩.
> Maraky al-Falah ١١٤, pt ٣.

* Bukhari ٣٩٤.

٢ Maraky al-Falah ١١٤.


١٣٠ BOOK It: PRAYER


Another point to bear in mind is, the two rak'ahs of entering the mosque are to be
offered immediately upon entering the masjid, prior to sitting down. Though, it is
clear in some of the narrations that Sulayk had sat down upon his arrival. One
narration states that; Sulayk sat down without praying, and the Messenger asked
him if he had performed two rak'ahs? He replied that he had not, so the
Messenger ordered him to stand and perform two rak'ahs. This confirms that he
was ordered to stand up and pray to reveal his condition to the other
Companions. "


Doe hl Godey S ll S gly dtl fy prt ou VI UY ve,


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer at the time of iqama except the sunna of the
dawn prayer; provided one is certain he will not miss the group prayer. The basis
for this is that it is one of the most emphasised sunan and because it yields great
rewards as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The rak'ahs of
fajr are better than the world and what it contains].' He also said[Pray the rak'ahs
of dawn, even if you are trampled on(or driven away)by horses]. If however, a
person will miss the fajr due to the sunna, then he is to join the imam and
relinquish the sunna. It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer before the Eid prayer
even if it is offered at home and likewise it is disliked after Eid prayer in the
mosque because at this time, one is to embrace his brothers.


ao ٩ BSG etl ins


When combining the prayers in Arafah and Muzdalifah, it is disliked to perform
voluntary prayer between them, not even with the sunna of the dhuAr or the sunna
of maghrib, because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Would not
observe voluntary prayers between them].*


Hel ods Go Ley


It is disliked for a person to offer voluntary prayer when there is minimal time left
to perform the obligatory one because one may miss the obligatory prayer from
its designated time.


Cnt VI dadl dey


It is disliked to offer prayer when holding back the need to urinate or defecate.
Whoever performs prayer resisting the urge of such things, then one's
concentration will not be complete and it will preoccupy one's mind and attention
and is therefore disliked.


" Bukhari, ٩٣٠.

* Muslim, ٧٢٥.

٣ Abu Dawud, ١٢٥٣.

'Ibn Shaybah in his Musnad, ٣/٣٨٨.

