BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٩


PLA ses OL
Prayer Of The Traveller


A traveller in Islam receives dispensations and allowances that a resident(non-
traveller)does not. Such dispensations include: the traveller wiping his footgear
for seventy-two hours whilst the resident may only wipe for twenty-four hours. It is
permitted for the traveller to break his fast during Ramadan even though he is of
sound health. Additionally, it is not necessary for the traveller to attend Friday
prayer or Eid prayers, whilst it is obligatory for the resident. Imam Shafi'i held
that the traveller is permitted to unite the dhuAr and 'asr together at the time of
dhuhr or at the time of 'esr. Equally, one may unite the maghrib with the 'isha at the
time of maghrib or 'isha.


SV ag pas oll i


The Travel Due To Which The Rules Change
sets de My LY gs dey pe al oll pall ye PLL ODE ٥ pe EV gy pac pie fil


CHM che ٠ Sd inte y lb pry(١d gare OSL OY)deel ly tI dy ld lS tay LY!
cot cel pal by(el GA ٠٩ ٤٥ AL


The smallest journey due to which the legal rules are changed' is the distance of
three days travel from the shortest days of the year, at an average pace and having
rest periods along the way.' An average pace is regarded as the walking pace of a
camel or walking pace of humans on land. With respect to a mountain range, the
pace considered is that which is appropriate to its conditions, that being the pace
of a walking camel or walking on foot. If one is at sea, the wind at an average pace
is the factor considered. Note: This rule law has been calculated by scholars in
terms of kilometres, in that if a person travels the distance of ٨١km one-way by
whatever means of transport it may be, then he is regarded as a traveller.'


dy faail be Leal ٥ glans celina ya)pale IB]oo pty Lol IS Joe ed sys cee ELI ٦ all paid


Gj Edo fds Va gle td gl dey pay oll Latil Oly Sha op


" Such as the shortening of prayer, the permissibility of not fasting during Ramadan and
the wiping of the footgear for seventy two hours etc.

? The travel of three days does not mean the travel of every minute of the day for three
days. Rather, the night is the time of rest and the day is the time for travel. For example: if
on the first day, a person intending travel sets off on the journey early and travels only
until midday, and then reaches a rest area where he camps overnight. Then on the second
day, he sets off early and travels until @ ltée after midday, and then on the third day sets off
early until midday, then he is deemed a traveller.(Maraky al-Falah). If however, one covers
this distance in a short period of time, then it holds the same ruling.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٨ pt-٥.

