١٤٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


٣٩٨ Y SF oly Cee Sie oS pe pr pe dy eed, Jo lt al, lal cole Gb ol ns ys
If one of the sides of a person's turban is struck with filth during prayer,
thereupon he throws the filthy part of the turban on the ground while the pure
section remains on his head; the prayer is deemed valid provided the filthy part
does not move when the clean side moves, although if it does, the prayer is
invalid.

ale sole| Vy gar fray dull bn le iby


One who has no means by which to remove the filth from his clothes, is permitted
to pray with that filth, and no repetition of the prayer is required for the reason
that Allah Almighty does not burden the individual except what is within his
ability. Furthermore, it is better to pray in filthy clothes as opposed to praying
naked.


By pl po b Glan
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Covering One's Nakedness
ce Y pal dass UNL yy cdr y ob Leb SH Late Mp m Sy cry Ral BU fe GLPY,


wea ٧ Sil ٤b Oo yey ble Se

Likewise, if one finds nothing to cover his nakedness, not even silk, grass or mud
and therefore he prays naked, no repetition of the prayer is required. Though if
one finds silk, he is required to use it under these circumstances, because the
requirement of covering one's nakedness is stronger than the prevention of
wearing it in this situation. And if one finds something to cover his nakedness,
and one fourth of it is clean, whilst three quarters are not, prayer is not permitted
naked, and the clothes must be used." If however, less than a quarter is clean, then
one has the option of using it or performing the prayer naked.


UL Oe pol JS wos Gate,


Prayer in clothes that are completely filthy is more preferable than praying naked.
Py fal poss Slory dy yl ae Aub toy Sy


If a person finds anything with which he can cover part of his nakedness, then it is
necessary to use it and cover the genitals and anus if that is all one has enough
for.


LM J ٥s pill pee JS FAY py Lop





" Note: even if clothes belong to someone else are found, though their owner gave permission
for their use, they must be used. If on the other hand, the owner did not give consent, then
legally they are not permitted to be taken and prayed with. However, should one do so, the
prayer is valid, but the person has committed a sin.[Nur al-Idah ٨٥].

