BOOK II: PRAYER ١٢٣


such as Imam Malik, Shafi'i and Ahmad Ibn Hanbal. Abu Hanifa opted with the
former ruling(i.e. double)and it is the ruling that is the most correct and which
the majority of Hanafi scholars have upheld. Note; there is no dispute concerning the
beginning of the dhuhr prayer, rather, it is about its end. Therefore, the dhuhr time begins
when the sun moves from its meridian. There is no dispute regarding this. According to the two
companions, it ends when the shadow of an object is equal to itself, after which the 'asr time
enters. According to Abu Hanifa, dhuhr ends when the shadow of an object is double itself,
after which the 'asr enters.


The reason Abu Hanifa's view is maintained as the most correct, is due to
caution; because according to the narration of Asad from Abu Hanifa, if the time
of dhuhr expires when the shadow of things becomes equal to itself, then 'asr does
not arrive until the shadow becomes twice as long. There is therefore a period in
between which is disused. It is therefore cautionary to pray the dhuhr before the
shadow becomes equal to the object and offer the 'asr after the shadow has
become twice as long as the object. This will ensure that both prayers are offered
within their timings with certainty. This is also the view in al-Mabsut."


The two companions, Abu Yusuf and Muhammad used as their proof, the
imamah of Jibril(Allah's peace and blessing upon him)where he led the 'asr
prayer on the first day at this time. The hadith is as follows: Ibn Abbas reported
the Apostle of God as saying[Jibril led me at the House(i.e. ka'bah)twice. He
prayed the noon prayer with me on the first day when the sun had passed the
meridian, and prayed the afternoon prayer with me when the shadow of all things
was equal to itself, On the second day, he prayed the noon prayer with me when the
shadow was equal to itself, and prayed the afternoon prayer when the shadow of
all things was double itself. Then he(Jibril)said: Between these times is time for
yourself and your nation].'


Abu Hanifa used as his proof(for the double shadow), the hadith of the Prophet[In very hot weather delay the dhuhr prayer until it becomes(a little)cooler
because the severity of heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire]." Abu Hanifa used
this hadith to show that there is no coolness when the shadow of a thing is equal
to its size especially in the Hijaz area. He also used the ast part of the hadith of
Jibril above saying that because Jibril led the dhuhr prayer when the shadow of
things was equal to itself, is a proof that it is the time of dhuhr and not 'asr. And it is
about this point wherein the dispute lays.'


wt SN y eS ould gl ell le sob Sl lial yo nani ody,


" Al-khtiyar ٥٧ | Maraky al-Falah ١٠٦.

٢ Abu Dawud ٣٩٣ | At-Tirmidhi ١٣٩ | Darqutani ١/١٦٨. This hadith has been deemed sound
by Ibn Khuzayma, Ibn Habban and al-Hakim in his Mustadrak ١/١٩٣.[Maraky al-Falah ١٠٦}.

* Bukhari ٥٣٦.

' Al-Hidayah ٨٣.


١٢٤ BOOK Il: PRAYER


٣/ The time of the mid-afternoon prayer('asr)begins when the shadow begins to
increase on the object it has doubled or equalled, until sunset; meaning, the mid-
afternoon prayer begins at the end of the noon prayer and ends at sunset.


٤ gall fo AM Git yo Seow lly


٤/ The sunset prayer(maghrib)begins when the sun has completely set and ends
when the dominant glow of red from the horizon has disappeared, and the fatwa
is in accordance with this. This is the view of Abu Hanifa and the saying of Ibn
Umar(Allah be pleased with him)who mentioned[The red horizon]." Likewise, it
is related from some of the great Companions. One should bear in mind that the
red colour of the horizon after sunset lasts for some time, thereafter the white
colour of the horizon appears. It is about these colours that scholars have differed.
The book al-Ikhtiyar another Hanafi text states that it is the white colour that
determines the end of the sunset prayer and the commencement of the nightfall
prayer, since it was the way of Abu Bakr, A'ishah and Mu'adth(may Allah be
pleased with them all). Al-Shafi'i said that it is up to the time in which three
rak'ahs can be performed, because angel Jibril(God's peace and blessing be upon
him)led the prayer on both days at the same time. However, the Hanafi Madhhab
relies on the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[The
first timing for maghrib is when the sun sets, while the last timing is until the
disappearance of the evening glow].


Comal Se ٥ gly clea,


٥/ The time of the nightfall prayer('isha)and witr prayer begin when the red
colour of the horizon disappears from the sky, and ends a little time before true
dawn, according to Abu Hanifa. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Verily, Allah has increased upon you, a prayer, and verily it is the
witr prayer. So pray it between the nightfall prayer('isha)until the rise of dawn].°


ade LS Deda tt d coy pM Weledl fo sill pus Y,


The wifr prayer is not to be performed before the 'sha prayer due to the
sequential order, which is waytb. If the time of the 'sha prayer does not arrive then
it is not compulsory to perform them(i.e. the 'isha and witr). In some countries
such as Antarctica, true dawn appears before the end of sunset, meaning nightfall
does not occur; and in these areas, in these times that it occurs, the 'isha prayer is
not compulsory, nor is the prayer of witr because the reason that renders it
compulsory is the coming of the time; yet that did not occur, and if the reason
does not occur then the prayers that require the time are not compulsory.


" Al-Baihaqi ١/٣٧٣.
٢ At-Tirmidhi, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٢٣٠.
* Ibn Hajar, Adiraya ١/١٨٨.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٢٥


٩٣ diy rt Y
Not Joining Two Obligatory Prayers In the One Time
pel oy perdi ela Vy phe PLY by cOW Ge GY a Sy Ge bin WEY


pene rag pass ٣

One is not to join two obligatory prayers in the one prayer time even with an
excuse such as travel or rain, for it is not valid to advance a prayer when its time
has not arrived, and neither is it valid to delay a prayer until the arrival of another
unless it be at Arafah for hajj, with the condition that one performs the prayers
with the great imam and with the condition that one is in ihram. Accordingly, the
pilgrim is to join the noon prayer and mid-afternoon prayer together at midday(dhuhr). The prayer is an advanced combining. That is, when the time of dhuhr
arrives, both prayers are offered with one adhan and two igamas usually at Masjid
Namira and no sunna is to be offered in between them.


Ata jay Leal y — all Cw ants
They also join the sunset and nightfall prayer in Muzdalifah. The prayer is a
delayed joining of prayers; meaning the pilgrims are to wait until the arrival of the


nightfall prayer and then offer both the sunset prayer and nightfall prayer with
one adhan and one iqama.


idle» Seb GOAN SZ Ly
The sunset prayer(maghrib)is not permitted to be prayed on the road to


Muzdalifah. It is performed in Muzdalifah. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[The prayer is ahead of you(i.e. at Muzdalifah]."


Beall OU gl opp Cred


Recommended Prayer Times
Je VU adh eV rns


It is recommended for a man to pray the fajr at the glow of dawn, i.e. when the
sky brightens. The Prophet((Peace be upon him))said[Perform the morning
prayer at the shinning(time of dawn), as your reward will be greater].? The reason
the reward will be greater at the glowing time of dawn, is because the gathering is
larger, though when it is still dark, the gathering is less; and that which is offered
in a larger group is superior. Additionally, Anas reported the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))saying[Whoever prays the fajr in a group, and then
sits and remembers Allah until the rising of the sun after which he offers two
rak'ahs, then it will be for him a reward like that of a complete hajj and complete
umrah].* With respect to a woman, its performance early when the dawn has not yet become
bright is recommended.


" Bukhari ١٦٦٩.
? Narrated by the five.
> AtTirmidhi, the Book of Prayer ٥٨٦. Maraky al-Falah ١٠٨.

