١٨٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Uncovering the private area[awrah]after unintentionally breaking wudu in prayer
invalidates the prayer and prevents its continuation, even if it was necessary to
expose the private part in order to purify oneself. An example includes a female
who exposed her arms to perform wudu, since the arm is part of her private area.
Therefore, revealing the private part nullifies the prayer and prevents its
continuation.


+d WU lutte sf Lald wel ٥
Reciting Quran on the way to renewing wudu or when returning from it, nullifies


the prayer and one can no longer continue it.
Unie Sd Fe dey ٢S)vlad ٥ eRe


After inadvertently breaking wudu in prayer, to remain in the prayer for an
amount of time equivalent to performing a pillar, and his remaining is made
while he is conscious nullifies the prayer. This means that if one is aware he has
ruined wudu, but remained anyway, the prayer is void. Consequently, it is not
permitted for this person to go and perform wudu and return and continue the
prayer, rather, he must start a new one. If however, there was a reason for his
remainder in the prayer such as over-crowding or he waited until his nose stopped
bleeding, then he is permitted to continue the prayer after renewing wudu.


٠h)(cyte ce ASL)by J ole Gj ley


To move away from nearby water to other water invalidates the prayer if the
distance was greater than two rows.


ITN hey dowd ps amy oy


A person's exit from the mosque believing he has broken wudu renders his prayer
invalid. For example, water may have run from one's nose, but he believed it was
blood and as a result left the mosque. If this occurs, one is not permitted to
continue the prayer. If however, one did not leave the mosque, he is to complete
what remains of the prayer.'


dhe o po Gd serall Gj slty
Crossing the lines of prayer in a place other than a mosque, such as a house or the
like, believing oneself to have broken wudu, nullifies the prayer even if one has
not broken wudu.
dol I op OH A Oly Mehes gl ٢٥ ade Ol yt ati Ail aoe bbe ON gl ogo ye ne ail LUb ail nails

Moving away from one's position believing he is not in a state of wudu, or that the
time period of wiping the footgear has expired, or believing that he has neglected
one of the previous obligatory prayers(which requires the maintaining of order)or that he has filth on himself, nullifies the prayer even if this person does not exit


the mosque in all these cases, because the moving away from one's place
imagining these things, invalidate the prayer and prevent its continuation.


" Al-Hidayah ١٤٢.

