BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٥
Siw Lai,


However, in all such cases with respect to the continuation of prayer(i.e. bina)it is
better to repeat the prayer from the start to avoid the disagreement between the
scholars such as the ruling of Imam Shafi'i(Allah be pleased with him}.


At this point, the rulings pertaining to the bina' of prayer are concluded.


o,
% ١},
~~


wl]ge Je oni


To help or instruct other than one's own imam nullifies the prayer. There is no
harm if one helps his own imam, but not others because this amounts to teaching
and instruction and is therefore a category of human speech. It is reported that
the Prophet recited Quran in prayer and left out a word. When he finished the
prayer he said, "Is Ubay not among you?" He answered; 'Yes.' The Prophet said,
"Did you make mention of it to me(in the prayer)?" He replied; 'I thought it was
annulled.' The Prophet returned, "Had it been abrogated, I would have informed
you." This shows that a person can help prompt his imam if he forgets the verse
or makes an error. Though not another imam. Ali(God be pleased with him)said,
"If the imam seeks to eat, then feed him." Meaning, if you see that he needs to be
prompted, then do so. It must be pointed out that the reason which caused the
Prophet to forget recitation in prayer and miss the prayer from its time on a few
occasions is because God allowed this to happen in order to set precedence for
mankind as to what they should do if they encounter the same circumstances. It
was not a direct mistake on the Prophet"s part."


Oe sf ٥ Hl JW iy Sy


To utter, "Allahu akbar" during prayer with the intention of changing to another
prayer nullifies the first one for the reason that one has ended what he began and
achieved what he has intended.' An example is a person who begins prayer alone
and then intends being a follower of an imam. AlHidayah states that if a person,
after praying one rak'ah of the dhuhr, commences the 'asr prayer or a
supererogatory prayer, then he has rendered his dhufr invalid due to the
commencement of another prayer. Another Hanifa text, Fat'k al-Kadir states: that
if one prays a rak'ah of the dhuhr prayer and then changes his intention to that of
the 'asr prayer, then the rak'ah performed for the dhuAr is void, since it is valid to
change from one intention to another. This is provided that one intends with his
heart not his tongue.'


Agrld shade pO po ghd! Lol Sal ole cae ١٥١


" Risalah an-Nafi'ah
? Maraky al-Falah ١٩٠.
٣ Fat'h al-Kadir.

