٢٨٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


How to Perform the Prayer


pS SANG bey geal ob Baal y : catl wplamd toly lol alo Sal! So pill p jG IL
BLde saat Mode gat yc cr all Pach Wl ope eS yy ASL!


If the people are tense or apprehensive to pray behind one imam for fear an
enemy could attack them at any time, thereby no-one is on watch due to their
engagement in prayer, then they are to be divided into two equal groups, the first
group stands opposite to the enemy while the other group pray one rak'ah from a
two rak'ah prayer(such as for the Friday prayer)or pray two rak'ahs from a four
rak'ah prayer or from the maghrib, because it is not possible to split the maghrib
into two equal halves, thus he allocates two rak'ahs to the first group. On
completion of the rak'ah(or two from four), this group returns to face the enemy
walking. /f they ride or walk to a direction other than the direction of the lines which are
opposite to the enemy, the prayer is void.'
ISN SN Ab ot y pling ٦ gh be oye fred c AUG cole y

Thereafter, the second group arrives and prays what is left of the prayer. The


imam then gives the final salams alone - while this(second)group returns to the
enemy walking.

V yada yl pakeny el ٥ He Ipfly Sy! ele @
After this, the first group returns and completes the prayer they began without
reciting Quran, because they were with the imam from the commencement and
the judgement is that the imam's recitation is regarded as recitation for the


follower, regardless if they leave and return. Upon completion, they give the final
salams and return to the enemy.


Bel py gay Le Nylon g Lyelt Ol ig FV ole os


The second group may then return if they wish or they may pray in their current
places, and they are to make up what remains from the prayer with recitation of
Quran for the reason that they are latecomers to prayer, due to the fact that they
began after the first group and latecomers must recite Quran for themselves when
making up what they missed. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed the prayer of fear according to this description."


Note: There are sixteen varying narrations about the prayer of fear. The Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)performed it twenty-four times and all are
permitted, but the greatest and closest to what the Quran states is that mentioned
above. In addition, one of the reasons that the prayer is split into two groups is
that while one prays, the other protects the rest of the people, so that the enemy
does not realise that half the people have left for prayer.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣١٩.
* Abu Dawud ١٢٣٤(Maraky al-Falah ٣١٩].


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٨١





rar)٣! Ja٥! a!
Excessive Fear
Ny ٢٥٣ Sgr ol Sl lek cold GUS Mylo G bt ett oly


If one's fear intensifies from an enemy for life and limb, one is permitted to pray
alone while riding his beast by way of indication(nodding).


Se ptm We dy
The prayer of fear(in this manner as well as dividing the group)is not permitted
unless it be in the presence of an enemy or foe.
Bl be all § CH Ye ey

It is recommended to carry a weapon during the prayer of fear. Imam Malik and
Shafi'i held it as necessary to carry a weapon due to the saying of Allah((When
you(O Messenger)are with them, and stand to lead them in prayer, let one party
of them stand up(in prayer)without you, taking their arms with them; when they
finish their prostrations, let them take their positions in the rear. And let the other
party come up which has not yet prayed, and let them pray with you taking all
precautions, and bearing arms: the unbelievers wish, if you were negligent of your
arms, to assault you in a single rush))."


cp DLe Joo oleh, dal |S Be PadVU c tots pl dle all Gye jks fools


If there is no apprehension or unease for all the people to pray behind one imam,
then the best method is that each group prays the entire prayer behind its own
imam; meaning the first group prays the entire prayer with its own imam,
thereafter the second group prays the entire prayer with its own imam, it is
therefore prayed in a manner that one prays when it is safe.

