٢٥٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


abe HEY ٢٩ ٨A ٢ pre ale HE oy
Who Is Required To Prostrate
CAs oye FL SL)٤ Sard y PLY yo eLaally ANY]٦ ell duets d Oly poe oe Je opty


The prostration of recital becomes wayib when one hears it, even if he does not
intend to hear it, and the ruling is the same whether one understands its meaning
or not, as is reported from many of the great Companions, God be pleased with
them all. However, this excludes a female experiencing menstrual periods or post-
natal bleeding(that is, they are not required to prostrate if they hear its
recitation)." And neither is the imam or his followers to prostrate if they hear it
from a follower behind this imam or from a follower of another imam. For
example, if the dhuhr prayer is being prayed, and one of the followers behind the
imam recites a verse of prostration that is heard by the imam and followers, they
are not required to prostrate. On the other hand, if a person outside the prayer
hears it from a follower who is offering prayer, then the person outside the prayer
is required to prostrate."


dahy Male ٣ eee aw dy aif dpb Lyte gly Beall ey Lyte one op Laren gly
If the imam and his followers hear the verse of prostration from another person
who is not praying, they are to prostrate after the prayer. If they prostrate in the
prayer, it will not suffice but their prayer remains sound according to the most
apparent view in this regard."
decal fo lgags of Qjlall pl #٥

Hearing the verse of prostration in Persian or any other language and
understanding it, makes it necessary to prostrate. Indeed, this ruling is the one
relied upon. This is what Imam Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf held though
Abu Hanifa said it is necessary even if one does not understand its meaning but
was informed to prostrate.*


OF SE oe lk ery dd eal ly


Experts differed whether a person is required to prostate if he hears the verse of
prostration from a sleeping or insane person, i.e. one may have uttered the words
while sleeping. As-Sarakhsy said that it is not necessary because the recitation of it





" This means that the prostration is not required of a menstruating woman or one suffering
from postnatal bleeding should they recite it or hear it from others. Though if one hears the
recitation from them, then others are required to prostrate. With respect to a person in a state
of janaba(sexual impurity). if he recites a verse of prostration or hears it from others, then he
must prostrate. And if others hear the verse recited from him, then they must prostrate as well.
Additionally, if it is heard from a disbeliever or a boy(capable of differentiating), then one is
required to prostrate.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦}.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.

: Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.

