٣٢٦ BOOK IV: FASTING


٥- As for voluntary fast, it is that which is not mentioned in the above categories,
provided it is not established as a day that is disliked to fast. Meaning, if it is
established that there is no dislike in fasting on a particular day, then there is no
harm in undertaking its performance.


LF ٠٩ Soy lee po ٠٩ Sec Wd s٤i oy SU LL,


٦- As for that which is disliked, there are two types. The first is somewhat disliked
and the second is prohibitively disliked.


Cell ye lo pe ol tle po JVI


The first type(which is somewhat disliked), is fasting the day of Ashura alone(١٠° Muharram)without joining with it the ٩° of Muharram. Ibn Abbas((God be
pleased with him))said; When the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))fasted the day of Ashura and commanded us to fast on it, they(the Companions)said; "Apostle of Allah, this is a day which is considered great by the Jews and
Christians." The Apostle of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))said,
"When the next year comes, we shall fast on the ٩" of Muharram." But the next
year the Apostle of Allah breathed his last." This indicates that one is to fast the
٩" and ١٠" of Muharram.


Bells pale pe : Gly


The second type of fast that is prohibitively disliked[makruh tahrim], is the fasting
on the day of Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha and the days of tashriq, which are the ١١",
١٢" and ١٣" from the month of Dhul- Hijjah. Abu 'Ubaid, the freed slave of Ibn
Azhar reported; I performed Eid along with Umar Ibn al-Khattab(Allah be
pleased with him). He came out in an open space and prayed and after completing
it addressed the people and said; "The Messenger of Allah((God bless him and
give him peace))has forbidden fast on these two days. One is the day of Fitr and
the second one, the day when you eat(the meat)of your sacrifices."


inatl py ol slo Sy


It is disliked to single out Friday alone for a day of fasting, unless it coincides with
one's regular days of fasting or unless one connects the Friday with the previous
day or day after. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Do not
single out Friday among days for fasting unless one among you is accustomed to
fast(on days)which coincide with this(Friday)].' The Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[None of you must fast on a Friday unless he fasts the
day before or after].


" Abu Dawud ٢٤٣٩.
* Muslim ١١٣٧.
* Muslim ١١٤٤.
* Abu Dawud ٢٤١٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٢٧


cele y ol als


It is disliked to single out Saturday for a day of fasting unless one connects the
Saturday with the day before or after it, or unless it coincides with one's regular
days of fasting.


sole Jil ge OF YJ Ole yell sl jy ples


It is disliked to fast on the day which is celebrated by Persians; and the day
celebrated by atheists(i.e. the first day of autumn), unless these coincide with
one's regular days of fasting.


ATG dill pe feats go> Meal oy All dey pets VOI eye ey gy dose p٠٠ Ss


It is disliked to perform continuous(uninterrupted)days of fasting, even if it is
only for two days; and the description of this is; on the first day of fasting, one
does not break his fast after the sunset until he has fasted the next day and
reached its night. Ibn Umar said that the Prophet(God bless him and grant him
peace)forbade continuous uninterrupted fasting. They(some Companions)said,
'You yourself fast uninterrupted,' whereupon the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said, "I am not like you. I am fed and supplied drink(by Allah)during the night."" Commentators are of the view that the observance of
uninterrupted fasts was the special prerogative of the Prophet(God bless him and
grant him peace).


Pileyoe sy


It is disliked to fast for one's entire life(that is, every day for the majority of one's
life)for the reason that one will become weak and the fasting will become a
routine in which the purpose of fasting is lost.


" Bukhari ١٩٦١.

