BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٧


esall fp of lee GLY,


However, if the people become weary, the imam may abandon the supplication
just before the finishing salams prior to the end of each prayer.


delaw Ys lot lel ye cu sl al gals Vy


If a person fails to offer the tarawih by himself or in a group(in its appointed
time), it cannot be made up later because tarawih is the sunna of a specific time, it
is not like a sunna of fasting. If a person makes up tarawih, it is regarded for him
as voluntary prayer, not tarawih.


٤٠S ٣٣a OL
Prayer In The Ka'bah
Obligatory and voluntary prayers are permissible within the ka'bah. Allah said[.that they should sanctify My house for those who compass it round, or use it as
a retreat, or bow, or prostrate themselves{therein in prayer}].'


Ugebe Saal OW Bele Y oy Ke SS i re de Joly Ui gb US,


Likewise, they(obligatory and voluntary prayers)are permitted on top of the
ka'bah even if one does not place a barrier for himself, although it is disliked to
do so, because it is an offensive etiquette to get on top of the ka'bah.


cents Vale! ocr y S٠٦ fer Oly ee Lad gd yd aale}omy nb SNe eh er ory


When performing ritual prayer in congregation inside the ka'bah or above it, if a
follower turns his back to any direction other than the face of his imam, then his
following is deemed valid. If however, the follower turns his back towards the face
of the imam, then his prayer is nullified for the reason that the follower will be in
front of the imam in the same direction in which the imam is praying. See the
outlay below.


*Follower's face - imam's back[Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٦}*Follower's face - imam's side


*Follower's back - imam's side
: : All are valid, even though one is facing a
*Follower's back - imam"s back different direction to the imam. Note: it is


disliked if one faces the imam head on and yet
there is no screen between them.


*Follower's side - imam's face





*Follower's side - imam's side.


though the follower is facing
the other way


*Follower's face - imam's face


٢١٨ BOOK Il: PRAYER


Coe lls Lead plo pr Le el eos


One's following of the imam is valid if the imam prays inside the ka'bah with the
door open while the followers pray outside. Note: It is not a condition for the door
to be open, but it is a condition for the follower to know about the changing
actions of the imam. If one can hear the imam while the door is closed, then the
following is valid.


abel dg ٣ Ug ST OS AY}¢ eee Ler gt PLY, Lim | yale Oo,


If many followers including the imam offer prayer around the ka'bah in a circular
manner, then all their prayers are valid, except for the one who advances in front
of the imam in the same side the imam is praying. If however, there is a follower
on the other side of the ka'bah and he is closer to the ka'bah than the imam, it is
valid because he is not praying in the same direction of the imam. See diagram
four below.


Diagram four
At this point, it does not matter
¢ <٤—— if he is closer than the Imam.


Follower - this person"s prayer is
void as he is praying in front of the
imam while praying in the same
direction as the imam.





Imam ——» t

