٢٠٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


If one does not remember to say the qunut in the third rak'ah of the witr and then
remembers it during the bowing or when rising from it, he is not to say it, but
rather should leave it and make the prostrations of forgetfulness. If however one
utters the qunut after raising his head from the bow, he is not to repeat the bow,
but must perform the prostrations of forgetfulness for moving the qunut from its
original position and delaying a necessary action.


dale]sli ٦ ٩S Mm gh Beg ad ae yt fF glo pill ael ٥ ops acd F١٣٥ LG LYM AS)٥٥


If the imam bows before the follower completes his qunut or the imam bows
before the follower even begins it, then the follower is to leave it and join the
imam if he fears that he will miss the bowing with the imam. If on the other hand,
he does not fear he will miss the imam in the bowing, then he is to supplicate and
then join the imam if possible.


an Vhs ٦٩٥ SG pM Slee Slo}Sly Goyal LYS yy


If the imam does not utter the qunut, then the followers should, provided it is
possible to join the imam in the bowing. If it is not possible, then the follower is to
disregard the qunut and join the imam.


٤s Sm led GLE pa WS pte O١٥ Fpl ope WU ٦ ٥)FPLYI Aol I,


If a latecomer to the group prayer catches the imam in the third rak'ah of the witr
prayer, then he is regarded as having caught the qunut in the legal sense; meaning
even though he missed the qunut, the fact that he caught the third rak'ah is legally
ruled as having caught the qunut. Accordingly, he is not to make up the qunut
when he stands to perform the actions he missed with the imam.


ati OLary ٣ Slow Sys


It is recommended that the witr be prayed in congregation only in the month of
Ramadan, which is what the majority maintain, whereas outside of Ramadan it is
better to pray the witr alone. However, Shams al-a-Imma said regarding witr outside
of Ramadan that if there is only one or two followers with the imam, there is no
dislike because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would wake
A'ishah and she would perform witr with the him.


٦ eeenall ٢ SE OG htt SUI oT lo pte alal oy prailolan, gues ares
WAH ont COS


The witr prayer in congregation in the month of Ramadan is superior than to
pray it alone at the end of the night, because when it is permitted to pray as a
group it is superior and greater. Umar(Allah be pleased with him)would perform
witr in congregation, and this is the most sound opinion as stated by Imam
Qadikhan. Though other scholars maintain that the opposite is the soundest view.


o


e ote


%P %"


e
o,
"

