٢٦٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


When Is One Required To Attend The Friday Prayer
ce GIZYI OBYG eal Sy ea ato te ped Es


It is obligatory to proceed towards the Friday prayer in a tranquil state and leave
buying and selling when the first adhan is called. Note: the author used the
Arabic word sa 'ty, which means to hasten in order to correspond with the words of
Allah(When the call to prayer is proclaimed on Friday, hasten earnestly to the
remembrance of Allah and leave off business and trade]. Though what he
intended, is to proceed to the Friday prayer walking in a tranquil state due to
words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[If the prayer
has been announced, do not come to it hastily, but rather come whilst you are
walking tranquilly]."


Branches
on. OP Ek > ISVs Dee W PLY = la}y


When the imam emerges usually from the room near the pulpit, in order to
deliver the sermon, there is no more prayer and no talking until the imam
completes the Friday prayer. This is the saying of Abu Hanifa as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Even saying to your companion 'listen'
while the imam is giving the sermon on Friday is to speak foolishly].? Though
Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said, "There is no harm if one talks when the
imam emerges provided one ceases before the imam speaks." And if the imam
orders the blessing upon the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)), then
one may utter it silently. By doing so, one will attain two merits; one for listening
to the sermon and the other for sending blessing upon the Prophet. Likewise, if
one sneezes, he is to praise Allah within himself. Indeed, the implemented and
relied upon ruling in the Hanafi school is that speaking is prohibited(whether one
is distant from the imam or close to him); for the reality is that the person distant
from the imam takes the same ruling as the one close to him. One is therefore to
listen and remain silent.*


OUIW, Lastly SAS ISM: St! ol ٠S


Eating, drinking, fidgeting with an object or something similar as well as looking
around is disliked for the one attending the Friday sermon. One should observe
what he observes in prayer and refrain from what he refrains from in prayer.


Lb le cots Vy bn on Vy


" Bukhari ٩٨, Muslim ١٢٤٩.
٢ Muwattah of Imam Malik ٦.
* Maraky alFalah ٣٠٢.

