١٥٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


It is sunna for a man to distance his abdomen from his thighs, his elbows from his
sides and his arms off the ground. Ibn Abbas(God be pleased with him)said: I
came to the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))from behind. I saw the
whiteness of his armpits and he kept them far away from his sides and raised his
stomach{from the ground)}."
andy Lge ogy AN stata,

It is sunna for the woman to reduce the distance between her limbs by connecting
her abdomen with her thighs. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))passed by two women who were praying and said((If you perform prostration,
then link some of the limbs together))."


CSdowsl oy HSAs & yl,


It has already been stated that the rising from the prostration to a point that is
near to a sitting position is obligatory. However, it is sunna to completely rise
from the prostration assuming the sitting position to its full. Additionally, it is
sunna to briefly adopt the sitting position between the two prostrations.


Age! SAS Coto Oy kb cp deed le cpa e٢٩٣


During the brief sitting between the two prostrations, it is sunna to place the
hands on the thighs, just as one does in the sitting of tashahhud. During this sitting,
one is not to take hold of the knees and this is the correct view.


ral nay ٥ pal bee y pl pals


During the brief sitting between the two prostrations and during the sitting of
tashahhud, it is sunna for a man to lay down his left foot on its left side and sit on it
while the right foot is allowed to stand upright with the heel in the air so that the
toes are facing the direction of prayer, as was related from Ibn Umar((God be


pleased with him)).' This is known as the /ftirash style.
al pl ٤٥ IPI


The female is to adopt the tawarruk style of sitting, which is one's posterior on the
ground and the left foot on its side, emerging from under the right which is
vertical.

SY ae gantry a)tre Upad Bolg ee HLL aowall JULY
It is sunna to gesture with the index finger when reading the tashahhud, as held
by all four Imams as the correct view. Abdullah Ibn al- Zubair said: The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))used to point with his finger and he would


" Abu Dawud ٨٩٨.
? Al-Baihaqi ٢/٢٢٣, Sunan al-Kubra.
٣ An-Nasai ١/٢٤٨.

