BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥٥


ce fe a Se V Slt le ttt iy de pt eal fe esl Ky


If the sitting of the listener changes and not that of the reciter, then the obligation
of prostrating will be repeated for the listener. Meaning, the listener hears the
verse of prostration in one sitting, and then changes sittings and hears the verse
again from the reciter who has not moved. Hence, the reciter remains in the same
place whereas the listener does not. In this case, the obligation of prostrating is
repeated for the listener. Though if the listener remains in the same sitting, while
the reciter does not, then it is not necessary for the listener to prostrate twice as
One suffices for the two, and this is the most correct view.


t٣?
Branches
aSKe Voit Sal pu yiy pl b oles,


It is disliked to recite a surah and leave out the verse of prostration, whereas the
Opposite is not disliked. This means that one may read the verse of prostration
leaving out the rest of the surah, and there is no dislike in such practice.


Us}st lal ous
Upon reciting a verse of prostration, it is recommended to add another verse of


Quran to it. The reason is to prevent the assumption that one verse is greater than
another, wherein reality they are all the words of Allah."


Boake Fe ajls!low,


It is preferable to silently recite the prostration verse from people who are not
ready or ardent to perform it, i.e. they may not have ablution or may be too tired


to perform it.
pra Vy pagdl Sl ٥ Vy YSU bi gee eds lL ade Vy Wo yl welwlon,
I plS ٢S Opto. lee YL

When a person is offering the prostration of recital, it is recommended to stand
for it, and then prostrate as A'ishah(God be pleased with her)performed. Umm
Salama(God be pleased with her)narrated[I saw A'ishah reading the Quran and
if she passed by a verse requiring prostration, she stood up and then prostrated].'
And the hearer of the verse is not to raise his head from the prostration before the
reciter. Note: In reality, there is no group performance for the recital prostration,
but it is preferred for the reader to prostrate first for he is the first person to
respond to what he recites; and the reciter of the verse is not to be ordered to
advance forward, and the listeners are not to be ordered to line up in rows.
Rather, they prostrate as they are when they hear it.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩١.
* Al-Baihaqi ٢/٣٢٦.

