BOOK I: PRAYER ١٤٩





The man then said, "By the One who sent you with the truth, I do not know
better than this, so teach me." The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[If you arise to pray, make takbir, then recite what you know from the Quran,
then bow and be at ease(for a moment)in your bowing, then rise until you are
standing upright, then prostrate until you are at ease(serene)in prostration, then
rise and be still(and serene)in your sitting, and perform this in all your prayers].


LEW DIN J aie ٥٦ meme Jad Ag tl inl Fy Jy Wo atlly


The first sitting and the recitation of the tashahhud in it, is wajib; and this is the
correct view. It is also wajib to recite the tashahhud in the last sitting.


sgt das ١٥ eo BIN I play


It is wajib to rise to the third rak'ah without any delay after reciting the
tashahhud. If a person forgetfully remains sitting after the tashahhud the amount
of time it takes to perform a pillar, he becomes liable to offer prostrations of
forgetfulness for delaying the compulsory standing of the third rak'ah.


Sle ٠٩٢ p AI aly


It is wayib to utter the word 'salam' at the end of prayer, though not the words
'upon you' for the reason that the intended thing, which is the exit of prayer, is
achieved when one says, 'salam.'


AN ApS y ٥ lossy


The supplication of the witr and the additional takbirs of both Eid al-Fitr and Eid
al-Adha are wajib. The view that the supplication of witr is wajib is the view held
by Abu Hanifa. Regarding the additional takbirs of Eid, each takbir is deemed
wajib, such that if it is omitted would require the prostrations of forgetfulness.


dale cpt Ye JS AY ٤S(Ld)y


It is wajib to specify the words 'Allahu akbar' for the start of all prayers, not only
for the prayers of Eid. Abu Bakr Ibn Abd al-Rahman reported that Abu Hurairah


would utter the takbir in every prayer, whether it was obligatory or non-
obligatory.'

palit d ES MS y
In the second rak'ah of both the Eid prayers, it is wajib to say, Allahu akbar' for
the bowing(ruku'). Note: in the second rak'ah of the Eid prayer, the additional
takbirs of Eid are offered after the recitation of Quran, after which it is wajib to
say, 'Allahu akbar' for the bowing. Therefore, the additional takbirs and the


takbir of the bowing are attached. This is contrary to the first rak'ah, because in
the first rak'ah, the additional takbirs come before the recitation of Quran.


" At-Tirmidhi[Maraky al-Falah ١٤٣}.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٤٤.
٣ Abu Dawud ٨٣٥.

