١٦٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


dale Glo pe LSI, sf Hel)gical LSI, LY OS VI,


The imam is rot to be riding upon a beast while the follower is walking on foot, or
the follower is riding a beast different to the beast of the imam. If however, they
are both riding the same beast or in the same vehicle, then imitating the imam is
correct.


eB fle ne ONG PLY, HA GOK Vy


The follower must not be on one boat while the imam is on another boat that is
not attached to it because in that case, they are deemed as two separate beasts.


WF jad g ocdany as ١٠.٩ ٦٣ o٩ DS ¢ yell ٦٥ pends eal]Se po gull abe VI


If the follower[mugtadi]knows that his imam is in an impure state, then his
following is not correct and he is to repeat the prayer. Hence, the follower must
not have knowledge that the imam's state is ruined according to his Madhhab,
such as blood flowing from an injury or vomiting a mouthful in which the imam
does not repeat wudu." However, if the follower does not know that the state of the
imam is ruined, the following is valid.


ae BYL Vo> jae VI olcil
When The Follower Is Better Conditioned Than The Imam


poe oF ٢ oll eens


It is valid for one in a state of ablution to pray behind one in a state of
tayammum. Amr Ibn al-'As((God be pleased with him))said: I had a sexual dream
on a cold night in the battle of Dhat al-Salasil. I was afraid if I washed, I would
die. I therefore, performed tayammum and led my companions in the dawn
prayer. They mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant
him peace))upon which he said, "Amr, you led your companions in prayer while
you were in the state of janaba(sexual impurity)"? I informed him of the cause
that impeded me from washing, and said: "I heard Allah say[Do not kill yourself,
verily Allah is merciful to you"]. The Apostle laughed and did not say anything.'
This ruling however was disputed by Imam Muhammad who deemed it not-
permissible.


cle bes
One who washes his limbs such as his feet is permitted to pray behind one who
wipes them such as the khuf, splint, or bandages.


dela, ٣b


" For example, if a person witnessed the imam vomit a mouthful prior to the prayer and he
did not repeat wudu, then if the follower has adopted the Hanafi school of thought, then
his following of this imam is invalid.

* Abu Dawud ٣٣٤.


BOOK ll: PRAYER ١٦٩





One who stands is permitted to pray behind an imam who is seated. It has been
established that the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)prayed the
noon prayer during his sickness of death whilst sitting, and the people prayed
behind him as followers standing.' Imam Muhammad said that it is not permitted
and this is based on analogical reasoning[giyas]constructed upon the stronger
state of the person standing.'


wl,
To follow an imam who is hump-backed is valid.
alias p yoy


A person who prays through indication(nodding)is permitted to follow a person
like him, due to the equality of their status. That is, the imam and followers are all
praying through indication.


wp Hin J
It is permissible to offer a voluntary prayer behind an imam performing an


obligatory one because one is constructing a weak element upon something that is
stronger, namely, the obligatory prayer.


DEL G ySall awl edhe Bokeh, ٦ yall pe]PLY jy abel aah]Te Oy gb OL


If it becomes evident that the prayer of the imam is void, then one is to repeat the
prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If the Se s
prayer becomes invalid, then the prayer of whoever is behind him is invalid].' The
imam must announce to the people to repeat their prayers as much as he is able
to, such as writing or sending a message to inform them, and this is the opted
view on the matter. Abu Bakr((God be pleased with him))said: The Apostle of
Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))began to lead(the people)in the
dawn prayer. He then signalled with his hand:(remain at your places). Then he
entered his home and returned while drops of water were coming down from his
head and he led them in prayer.





" Al-Baihaqi ٣/٤٣١(٥٦٩٧).

? AlHidayah.

* Mentioned by Ibn Al-Jawziya in the Book of Tahnik ١/٤٨٨.
* Abu Dawud ٢٣٣.

