٣٨٤ BOOK V: ZAKAT


slats ٥
The Zakat On Livestock


Note: The owner must have possession of animals for one lunar year before zakat
is compulsory. And the nisab(minimum amount)is governed by the number of
animals in one's ownership and not by the value of each animal.


BIS ٥ aS aS ope CEM oe J SO
There is no zakat paid for less than thirty pasturing cattle.


When a person owns thirty cattle(up to ٣٩)and one year has passed over them,
the zakat due is a tabi' which is a one year old cow that has entered its second
year.


SUS Sopa y Ole SOF Sl ya speedy eal oye ee ped Crd al ol


Upon reaching forty head(up to ٥٩)the zakat due is a 'musin' which is two years
old and entered its third year.


SIE JS ABN Be Nj(IS NIK ny ٦ Deane ped OTE ALS Ol fe ees Qed bpd rane Gb OT US
nore nme ad JS ٣٩ + ans


When they reach seventy in number(up to ٧٩)the zakat due is a ¢abi'and = mu-sin.
When they reach eighty head, the zakat due is two musin's. And this is the
procedure in that for every thirty animals, a tabi' is due and for every forty
animals, a mu-sin is due. For example, if one possesses ٩٠, this comes to three tabi's
since one is due for every thirty.


Number Zakat on Livestock[| rear Od ayear Ord[٠٩ |Tanimal |
Cr[e٠٨٩[Fanimas[sd[٧٠[Tania[Tania[a[Paina[٩٠[Sania


١ animal plus ٢ animals
٤ animals or ٣ animals
















wallals;
Zakat On Sheep(And Goats
ASS ASL call ye Crate al bd


There is no zakat for less than ٤٠ grazing sheep. Note: The minimum on which
zakat is payable is ٤٠. Therefore, from ٠-٣٩, there is no zakat.


pall ope BLE gad yd le Shey Cee ole bal


When the number reaches ٤٠(up to ١٢٠)and a year has passed, the zakat due is
one sheep.


© OULE pea cp ey sel BL ras Ol
When there are ١٢١(up to ٢٠٠), the zakat due is two sheep.
٦ ols SW[gad stol yy tle prai Of UI
Upon reaching ٢٠١(up to ٣٩٩)the charge is three sheep.
Le asd lead Ble wt nai Ot
Upon reaching ٤٠٠ sheep, the zakat due is four sheep.
whan SE Le gag tlh ope WT FO ٥ gE Vy cele pally Lally als BER fe ٤٥ BL IS ٩S


Thereafter, for every hundred sheep after four-hundred, the zakat is one sheep,
which must be a lamb or a goat(which is at least one year old). And it is not
permitted to pay as zakat an animal less than one year old.


pH als;
Zakat On Horses


Dy tase[DI GS Spey Mace dil go)da pl oes


Abu Hanifa held that zakat is wajib on horses when five conditions are satisfied.
«ail gf Ca ope Glas en OK OF: Uy


١- The first condition is that the value of the horses must equal the nisab of gold
or silver. This means it must equal the value of ٨٧ grams of gold or ٧٠٠ grams of
silver.


ISL OG OI: GUL


٢- The horses are to be pasturing horses, grazing on open range pasturage for the
whole year or the majority of it. This excludes pasturage growing on the land that
a person owns.

