٢٩٤ BOOK II: FUNERALS


The sufficient shrouding for a woman are three; the inner wrapper, outer wrapper
and veil[|khimar].


The procedure of shrouding a woman is as follows; the female is made to wear the


shirt. Her hair is then divided into two folds and placed over the right and left
breast, over the shirt.


BW os ٥ yb LIS
The veil is then placed upon the head and face over the shirt so that it will end up
being under the outer wrapper.
Wi Ale
The breast cloth is then tied over the outer wrapper to prevent them from


unfolding and potential exposure. Hence, we have the shirt, followed by the veil,
inner wrapper, outer wrapper, and breast tie.


Ud coy ol J٥ ١٥)OUST ٤٥
The shrouds(be they for a man or woman)are then scented with aroma from
aloes and the like and this is performed in odd numbers before the deceased is
placed in them. The Prophet((God bless him give him peace))said[If you place
an aroma upon the deceased, then do so in odd numbers].'


de yleiyy pall ٢٥٥


The shroud of necessity(whether for a man or woman)is what is available as
mentioned in the hadith earlier.


٣ Liat sue ٣ Jaed
The Prayer Over The Dead(Funeral prayer)Lets shy cdl fo SAvall .S>
Its Ruling And Pillars
BUS ٢ J ale Lal


The prayer over the dead is a communal obligation, meaning it is collectively
obligatory, though if a few persons perform the prayer, then the rest are relieved
of the obligation. Allah said[And Pray over them].? And the Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))said[Pray over every pious and impious person].°


eLill ASS Ls,


" Ahmad ٣/٣٣١.
* Tawbah ١٠٣
٣ Abu Dawud ٥٩٤.


BOOK ١١١: FUNERALS ٢٩٥


The pillars of the funeral prayer are the sayings of Allahu akbar and the standing(ie. to stand and perform the prayer).


call fe salt by


Conditions Of The Funeral Prayer
daw ght ٥
Its conditions are six;
٤ eb y call po!
|/ ٢/ The deceased is to be Muslim and in a state of purification. Allah said[Nor
do you ever pray for any of them that die, nor stand at his grave, for they rejected
Allah and His Messenger, and died in a state of perverse rebellion]." With respect
to the second point of purification, this means, the deceased must be free from
filth regarding his clothes and body including the area where the deceased is
placed. The reason purity is a condition is because the deceased, during the


prayer, is in front of the people and it is the right of the imam that the dead body
be clean.


yall pled ana
٣-The deceased is to be placed in front of the people.
٤-The body of the deceased or the majority of it should be present. If not, then
half the body with the head is to be present. Prayer is not to be performed if the
deceased is not present. As for the prayer over Najashi, this was something
specific for him according to the agreement of Hanafi scholars as well as the
Malikis. It was considered as a Miracle for the Prophet. As for the Shafi'is and


Hanbalis, they held that the funeral prayer is permitted upon a non present
deceased.'


phe CSI)nb Updo ual ٣,٥٥
٥-The people who are praying over the deceased must not be riding or sitting


unless there is a valid reason; because standing during the funeral prayer is a
pillar and one cannot leave the standing position unless there is a valid reason.


ade ope VI sb Sdl fo Datta fo gh blo Je obs Of G٢ MI Je ellos
٦-The deceased is to be placed on the ground during the prayer. If he is placed on
a beast(such as a horse)or is held up by the hands of the people, then the prayer


is not valid according to the chosen view, unless there is a legitimate reason, such
as the ground is extremely muddy.


" Tawbah ٨٤.
* AL Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٩٠.

