BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٣





When rising from the bowing posture, it is sunna to praise God by saying Our
Lord, praise is only for You,'[Rabbana walakal hamd|. This is sunna for the
follower and the one praying alone according to the consensus of Hanafi scholars,
whereas Abu Hanifa held that it is sunna for the imam to say, "Sami Allahu Liman
Hamidah" only, whereas the two companions maintained that it is sunna for the
imam to say "Sami' Allahu liman hamidah, Rabbana walakal hamd," although they
held that the last part is said silently. And this view has been narrated from Abu
Hanifa as well.


le edly
It is sunna to recite all these utterances silently, i.e. the opening glorification[thana}, seeking protection in God from Satan the accursed[ta'awwudh], uttering
the name of God[tasmiyya], saying 'Amin' and praising God[tahmid].


ol Nalblb ws op dn pull te Sle,


To stand upright at the time of the opening Allahu akbar without hanging(or
bowing)the head, is sunna.


Cells ٢Sb PLM ers


It is sunna for the imam to say the opening Allahu akbar aloud as well as the
tasmi'(which is, Sami Allahu liman hamidah—Allah has heard those who praise him).


Spreading the feet the distance equal to four fingers when standing. Abdullah ibn
Mas'ud saw a person standing in prayer with his two feet together and judged it to
be against the sunna. He advised the person that if he practiced murawaha, it
would have been more preferable." The word murawaha is normally taken to mean
to stand on one foot and then the other, alternating between them as the other
becomes tired. Although another meaning is to leave a slight gap between the feet,
and this is the preferred view according to the above narration since the person
was standing with the feet together. Based on this, the hadith means that
Abdullah ibn Mas'ud instructed to leave a small gap between the feet since the
sunna was not to completely join them(and neither to keep them far apart).
Furthermore, the sunna of standing in the lines is to join the shoulders as is
clearly apparent in hadith and if a person is to spread the feet beyond the
shoulder width, then it will be impossible to still maintain shoulder contact.


cpg eldally pant Gable sh soy pglally mall J fad Spb oye FU ds alls, pO Sls
Kean ONS gS pall J esas





" An-Nasai ١/١٤٢.
? Fiqh al-Imam.

