٢١٠ BOOK II: PRAYER





dL j JL oda oy US Lo]Je lee We Sy


However, it is disliked to gather in the mosques to spend these nights in worship,
for neither the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))nor the Companions
observed them in the mosques. In fact, the majority of the scholars from the
Hijaz, such as 'Aéa and the fuqaha of Madina including the companions of Imam
Malik stated that performing any of these nights in a group is an innovation.


O. ٠,
oe "


o,


@,
o,
~~


AN! fe SLally LIL Jatt de G


Voluntary Prayer While Sitting
And Prayer Upon a Beast(Or Means Of Transport)hall Je a ad an pal jo gail
Sitting For The Voluntary Prayer With The Ability To Stand
Dea AGUS dads y ye oe VI SL ot ined JS)pla fo a sal as lel pictt ٥٩٨


Voluntary prayer is permitted sitting even if one has the ability to stand, although
one receives only half the reward of the one standing unless there is a reason for
sitting, in which case one acquires full merit. And during the prayer, one is to sit
like a person in tashahhud if he has no reason to pray seated, and this is preferred
view on the matter. However, Abu Hanifa held that one may sit as he wishes
because when a person is permitted to leave the original posture of standing, then
to leave the normal manner of sitting is better. If however, one possesses a reason
for sitting, then he may adopt the posture he is comfortable with. Regarding the
first point, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The prayer in a
standing condition is better than prayer in a sitting condition, and the prayer in a
sitting posture is half the prayer of one who offers it in a standing posture].'


CeO Le Hal Se[SU ao Lil tay Luc aol}jl y


It is permissible to complete a voluntary prayer sitting after starting it standing
according to Abu Hanifa. This is the most correct view on the basis that standing
is not a pillar in voluntary prayer and one is therefore permitted to leave it.
However, this is contrary to the two jurists."





" Abu Dawud ٩٥١.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٧.


BOOK It: PRAYER ٢١]٤١ fe Lett all


Voluntary Prayer Upon A Beast(Or Means Of Transport)alo ٤٩> ٩ Mgr ol J}ey pall! coe LSI)Jers


A person outside the city is permitted to offer voluntary prayer whilst riding on
the back of a beast, and he is to pray through indication toward any direction the
beast turns. Ibn Umar(God be pleased with him)said[I saw the Messenger of
Allah((God bless him and give him peace))praying on the back of a donkey when
he was facing Khaybar, and he was praying through indication]." Note: this rule
applies when one has passed the buildings of his area of residence. It is the place
that if a traveller reaches, he is permitted to shorten his prayers." It is not a
condition that one be a traveller according to the Hanafi view, though he must
pass this area. According to Shafi'i and Malik, it is not permitted unless one be a
traveller. Abu Yusuf holds that voluntary prayer upon a beast is permissible
within one's area and that it is not a condition to exit the area of residence.


Sy Vie os


If one begins a voluntary prayer upon the back of a beast and then dismounts, he
is to continue the prayer; though if one begins on the ground, he cannot continue
the prayer if he mounts the beast. The reason being that when one commences
the prayer on the ground he has necessitated all the conditions, though when he
mounts the beast, some conditions are omitted such as facing the qibla, being in
the same place and the reality of bowing and prostration.


did am y dace yh ٢٦٥((paill ae o> Wa pd ٩ BIS ٣١D)AI NTL OLS Sy(CEI fe oY! je y))Lape op ASTUEY al a J ail dls

Prayer through nodding on the back of a beast is permitted for the emphasised

sunan as well as other sunan even if it is the sunna of the dawn(fajr), though Abu


Hanifa held that one must dismount the beast for the sunna of the dawn prayer as
it is more emphasized than other sunan.


WELD gb Go S phe sit IS Ly UALS He OS OL ost fo LGV g ghar jhe y


It is permissible for one offering voluntary prayer to lean on something such as a
stick or wall if he becomes tired and there is no dislike on the basis of having a
reason. If however, there is no reason, then it is disliked according to the correct
view, for it is considered as bad manners.


Ce fe lS dy Ep NGS gly Wyle Seles AI fo Ball ine es Vy


" Muslim, Abu Dawud, and an-Nasai, vol, ٢/١٥١.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٧,


٢١٢ BOOK tl: PRAYER


Filth upon a beast does not prevent the prayer from being valid," even if the filth
is on the saddle or stirrups, and this is the most correct view. This rule is adopted
by the majority of the Hanafi scholars based on necessity.


Cle WL tlle ana Vs
Prayer is not permitted walking and this has the agreement of consensus. The


reason it is not permissible is because one is continuously changing places.


oe, ©
"e "


O
"e


UDI Le Col sly ٢ wl Lal G
Obligatory And Wajib Prayers Upon A Beast
BUD Vy cot bb Ma ٤d Ft lege psd FMS Sbal SV y ٢st we Ula fo ees ¥
PM fe ul LG eye


Obligatory and wajib prayers are not permitted on a beast and neither is the
funeral prayer. Examples of necessary prayers include, i)the witr, ii)the prayer
that one promises to perform(nidhr)and iii)voluntary prayer that was ruined, for
verily if a person spoils a voluntary prayer it becomes necessary to make up and
this cannot be offered upon a beast or in a vehicle. Likewise, the prostration of
recital is not permitted upon a beast if its verse was recited on the ground.


NSM aby pee ٩ Ij Hols shale shad be pa! GSEs pa)YI


However, in all the above cases, it is permissible upon the beast when there is a
necessity such as one who fears for himself, his beast or clothes from a thief(who
may steal from him)if he dismounts. In this case, it is permitted on the back of a
beast. Allah says[If you fear an enemy, pray on foot or riding(as may be most
convenient)].' Other valid reasons include fear from a predatory animal, or the
ground is excessively muddy in which if one prostrates, his face will disappear.
And if it happens that one has no beast and the ground is excessively muddy, one
is permitted to pray standing nodding with his head."


٠ pred aS pp Ct Older y ptt y UII! e yy
Equally, if the beast will become uncontrollable by the rider dismounting from it
or there is no helper present to assist him to remount the beast due to his inability
to mount by himself, then both obligatory and necessary prayers are permitted
riding on a beast.


" This ruling does not change even when the filth exceeds the area of a dirham. The area
of a dirham is the internal part of the palm.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٨).

* Al-Baqarah ٢٣٩.

> Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٩.

