٢١٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


is not disliked, it is better not to delay tarawih until such time for fear of missing
the prayers with the entry of dawn.


SS An ٥ ٠٩ Fay
Tarawih is twenty rak'ahs consisting of ten(pairs)of finishing salams according to


the consensus of the Companions; that is, each pair is finalised with finishing
salams.


le jAe deri JS we» I orrey


After completing four rak'ahs of tarawih, it is recommended to sit and rest for as
much time as was required for the performance of four rak'ahs.


Pply mtd cry All oy ١٤٥


This is also the case between the last tarawih prayer and the witr, in that it is
recommended to sit and rest for an amount of time equivalent to two pairs and
this is what Abu Hanifa held. And during this rest, one may utter invocations or
recite Quran.


NBM De om ks SL gop Ve ti ١S pill ey Jo Ly ٦ cereal fo sg ttl D٥ ps Uged OT pl pe ey


It is sunna to recite the whole Quran in the tarawih prayers once in the month of
Ramadan, and this is the soundest view. It is been said of Abu Hanifa - that he
completed the Quran sixty one times in Ramadan. In the day he would complete
it once, and in every tarawih prayer he recited the Quran once, thereafter he
offered the dawn prayer with the wudu of 'isha prayer for forty years. If the people
dislike or become weary from the effort of reciting the Quran once in the month,
then the imam is to recite the amount which does not deter the people from the
prayer and this is the opted view, because it is better not to make people loathe
the group prayer which then causes them to neglect its attendance. It states in the
books al-kAtiyar and al-Muhit, that the best thing in our time is not to make people
dislike the group prayer, for the larger numbers are greater than lengthy
recitation. The legal ruling[fatwa]issued is in conformity with this.


desk! fe oo pill be gly pre gts IS a ploy ale dtl bo Ls fe Hal Ie Vy


However, the sbrahimiya in every tashahhud of the tarawih prayer must not be
neglected even if the people dislike this, because it is an established sunna to
recite the ibrahimiya according to the Hanifa school and obligatory according to
Imam Shafi'i. And this is the chosen view on the matter.


spreSly FSM ay LY,


Likewise, one is not to abandon the opening glorification at the beginning of each
tarawih prayer, and neither the tasbik in bowing and prostration, for some schools
of thought hold these actions as obligatory whilst in the Hanifa school, they are an
emphasized sunna. Thus, one must not abandon them even if the people dislike
this for it is deemed idleness on their part.

