٣٨٦ BOOK V: ZAKAT


J oAl lade Stal: HW,
٣- One year is to pass over the horses before zakat becomes obligatory.
byl yy ead Laks UL]CIWS Ly ٦ ISS gd OF fd Laks ١, ٥٣ IIS Of WLy L٩٥٣ ٥٩٥ oT: walls


+ The fourth requires that one have in his possession male and female horses, for
if they are purely male, then zakat is not necessary to pay, whereas if they are
purely females, Abu Hanifa held two narrations on the matter(God have mercy
upon him). One of these narrations held the requirement of paying zakat and the
other did not.


AD Led IS ٥ HG Lge for gt oS ULSI OS Of. J Lod ٥ WU SS of:
Leas fdI Gals ٥ Val Srey ae y ll


٥- It is conditional that the owner have acquired the horses for the purpose of
producing offspring, for if they are acquired to ride on or to carry about(people
or items), then no zakat is due upon them." Imam Abu Yusuf and Muhammad
held that there is no zakat paid on horses at all. They relied on the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[There is no sadaqah on the
Muslim for his slave or horse]." This is recorded in all the six sound compilations.
Abu Hanifa relies upon the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))[On each pasturing horse is a dinar or ten dirhams]."


Nas ed IS oe eel Lt Ly eyed oe ally sal elt ob: ft all ULI die glade Jey


According to the Madhhab of Abu Hanifa, the method of paying zakat upon the
horses is to be left to the owner; if he wishes, he may subject them to evaluation
and pay ٢.٥% on this or if he wishes he may pay one dinar upon every horse. This
option of paying a dinar upon each horse is available provided all the horses are
of equal value. If on the other hand, they differ in value, then it is wajib to subject
them to evaluation and pay the ٢.٥% required.


" If however they are taken for the purposes of trade, then one is required to pay zakat
upon them as he would for the merchandise of trade.

* An-Nasai ٢٤٦٩.

* Darqutani and al-Baihagi. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٣٥٧-٥٨.


gloss! ٤٩٦ lS ٥
Zakat On Merchandise Of Trade
NSLS E٩٠٣ ge aT poll pall ope OWS ly ٤d pe Le JS: Byles oy pe aL
The meaning of the merchandise of trade is all things that a person uses for trade,
even if they are grazing animals, crops, or fruits.
Mga ce peal ges od ail gh dll ope Ua eed Saal Of ye JS FTG sles ٥٩ ٦ ٠ ٩


The merchandise(or goods)used for trade is to be evaluated at the end of every
lunar year. If its value reaches the nisab(the minimum amount)of gold or silver,
then one is required to pay ٢.٥% of its worth.
iy LADY cog J Cer CI J oy pall Ol gee fo ٦ os gill Sol al Snes bo ٠ Ol a
eal ٦ ball lsd ADL cag Jy bhai

During this evaluation, it is necessary to keep in mind the benefit(and future)of
the poor and unfortunate persons, meaning that if the merchandise of trade
amounts to the nisab of silver if it is evaluated against it, though would not


amount to the nisab of gold if it is evaluated against it, then the goods are to be
evaluated against the silver and this is what is meant by the benefit of the poor.


However, if the merchandise of trade reaches the nisab(the minimum amount)of
both gold and silver, though the evaluation against one of these would be more
beneficial for the people, then one is to evaluate the goods to what is more
beneficial.


NM y Ea. D AS ٥
The Zakat On Crops And Fruit
EW Le oh ٢٥ gh OS WIE AIS SN ae gt IS Gol SJ — ace ail ٥٥)— de> yl ood
' ApS y oN yl AdIS She né slo! ie Sly ball wv tls


Abu Hanifa held that anything that grows from the earth(i.e. crops / produce /
harvest)requires zakat, whether it is a small or large amount, or whether it can
keep good in storage such as seeds, cotton or saffron or whether it is unable to
keep good in storage such as vegetables or fruit.


hae dy KS Ob: Sg: nb a Ye VE as(dal CE Vad See y Gee pl ondy
BP aad ced US Ol gh SG ee WI IS Of Ge gh SLaly bla' ot aly ol GW

