١٧٢ BOOK II: PRAYER





the most right to be imam, followed by the leader[amir], judge and then the
owner of the place. With respect to the owner of the place, the one who rents a
place of dwelling has more right to lead the prayer than the one who owns the
place. In addition, the judge has more preference over the imam of the mosque, a
point which is clearly stated in hadith that the Prophet said: "One should not be
led in his place of authority, nor should one sit on his takrima(bedding or seating
area)without his permission. ![AsSalkini states]One can be an imam in a house, mosque or any other place.
With respect to performing the prayer in a house, the possessor of authority and
rule[dhu sultan]has the most right to be imam, then the owner of the place,
though the owner of the place may give consent for others to lead. If the prayer is
offered in a mosque or any other common place, then the one who has authority[dhu sultan]i.e. the one who presides over and oversees Islamic affairs, whether he
be a ruler or judge — is also the one with the most right to lead the prayer. If the
one who possesses authority and rule(dhu sultan]is not present, then the imam of
the mosque is the one with the most right. If none of these individuals are present(ie. the one who holds authority and rule{dhu sultan]as well as the owner of the
place and the imam of the mosque), then the one with the most knowledge
concerning the rules of prayer has the most right followed by the rest of the
categories mentioned below."
Vis

٢- Thereafter the one most distinguished in the recitation of Quran; meaning one
who knows the rules of recitation. It does not merely mean the one who knows the
most Quran; rather he must know the rulings pertaining to its recitation, such as
when to stop, when to connect, how to pronounce the letters and the rules
associated with such issues. The Messenger of Allah(Peace and blessing of God
be upon him)said[The one who is well grounded in the Allah's book and is
distinguished among them in recitation should act as imam for the people].'
Indeed, some maintain(such as Abu Yusuf)that the one most distinguished in
recitation takes preference over the most learned. However, the response is that
recitation is needed for one essential element of prayer, whereas knowledge is
required for all the elements.'


eM segs sW ed
٣- Then the most pious[wara]. This term refers to one who abstains from


anything that appears to be forbidden. And this is regarded as a higher level than
piety as piety alone entails staying away from forbidden things.





" Muslim ٦٧٣ / Abu Dawud ٥٨٢ / Maraky al-Falah ١٧٢.
* Al-Figh alIslamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣١٦-٣١٧.

* Muslim ٦٧٢ / Maraky al-Falah ١٧٢.

' Al Hidayah, ١٣٣.

