The Chapter Of Fasting'
pall dai>
The Reality(Definition)Of Fasting
Lal ops Ss CANN a get yey ٦ cbt pS Le gl Ula Ue gh lee oot Sle al ye Ile SLY yp

Fasting is to abstain during the day from allowing anything to enter into the
stomach through the mouth, nose, or cavity in the body, whether intentionally or
by mistake; or that which has the same legal status of the stomach such as the
brain.' In addition, fasting is to abstain from sexual gratification;? and one's
abstention from eating, drinking or sexual gratification is to be in unison with the
intention of fasting.' Equally, this abstention is to be from a person who fits the
criteria for fasting, such as being Muslim, sane, mature, and free from menstrual
bleeding and postnatal bleeding. Note: with respect to the intention(which is
knowing in one's heart that one will fast that day), it is rare that one would fast without
an intention. In the exceptional case that one does not intend the fast overnight,
then one may still do so up to the time just prior to midday.


" Lexically, fasting is to refrain — whether it is refraining from speaking, actions, eating,
drinking or from other things. The legal definition of fasting is given above.

? For example: if a person suffers an injury and he places medicine upon it; the fast is void if
the medicine penetrates the cavity and enters the body.

> Such as sexual intercourse or to emit sexual discharge due to foreplay.

' The intention of fasting is to have a firm resolve in one's heart upon the act in order to
distinguish one act from another. And to make one"s intention with the tongue is not
conditional. Furthermore, the intention is required regardless of the type of fast, such as the
obligatory, wajib, voluntary; even the make-up fast[gada]. Al-Ikhtiyar states: that the intention
of fasting is a stipulation, and it is to know in one's heart that one will fast. It is not conditional
that the intention be affirmed on the tongue; and there is no disagreement concerning the
beginning of the time of intention, which is when the sun sets; though they disagree concerning
its end time. Zufar said, "The intention is not conditional for the resident of sound health,
because the time is specified, such that no other act of fasting is accepted in that period except
Ramadan. Therefore, if one refrains from that which the law has commanded, then it fulfils the
obligation of Ramadan." We say, "It is an act of worship that cannot be valid without an
intention, just like all the other acts of worship; and because the Prophet said[Action are by
intentions}; and also because refraining from eating, drinking or sexual gratification may be the
normal habit or routine for many people; or it may a remedy for the sick or it may be a diet for
those who exercise. The only way to specify this is with an intention, such as one does when
rising for prayer." As for the permissibility of allowing the intention(of fasting)to be formed all
the way up to midday(prior to the sun reaching its peak), we say that Ibn Abbas reported that
the people awoke on the day of uncertainty. A bedouin came and said, "I have sighted the
moon." The Prophet asked him, "Do you testify that there is no god except Allah and that I am
the Messenger of Allah?" He replied, "Yes." The Prophet said, "Allah is great, one Muslim is
enough for the Muslims." He then began the fast and ordered others to fast. He ordered a caller
who called, "Those who have eaten should not eat for the remainder of the day and he who has
not eaten is to fast.(Abu Dawud ٢٣٤٠ / at-Tirmidhi ٦٩١ / an-Nasai fil Mujtaba vol. ٣, ١٣٢ / Ibn
Majah ١٦٠٢. Ibn Khuzayma authenticated the hadith ١٩٢٤ / Ibn Habban ٣٤٤٦).[Al-Ikhtiyar
١٨١-١٨٣}.


٣٢٢ Book IV: FASTING


erally
The Cause Which Obligates Ramadan
ASV Cae a ٩p JS ٩ er ٠ jm ٢ gt Oban ye yey


The cause, which obligates the fasting of Ramadan, is one's presence in the time
that is correct to fast,(this therefore excludes the night). And the arrival of each
day of Ramadan is a reason obligating one to fast that particular day. We said
earlier with respect to prayer, that when the prayer time arrives, one is obligated
to pray. Likewise, the arrival of the month of Ramadan is a cause obligating one
to fast its month, and each day is a cause for the fast of that day. Thus, the month
of Ramadan is a general cause, while each day is the cause for the fast of that day.
Al-Ikhtiyar states; "The intention of fasting is condition for each day, because
each day is a day of worship one by one. Does one not see that if one ruins a day
of the fasting, that it does not prevent the rest of the days from being correct?!
Additionally, if a person matured or embraced Islam during Ramadan, then he is


required to fast that which remains of that day and the rest of Ramadan and not
what has passed."


asl asl by ٣ aa S>
Its Ruling And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
olathe lad pace! oo Je clay lal ob yay


It is obligatory to perform the current Ramadan as well as making up an
unperformed Ramadan which was missed, provided one meets four conditions,
and they are;


Fatty Jaally oI


Islam, sanity and maturity. One must be Muslim, for the verses of Quran and
hadith with respect to Ramadan are aimed at Muslims. Also, fasting is not
compulsory upon an insane person or one who has not attained maturity.


PHY la ٠S gh I lat pled oo ye Ih pally


To have knowledge that it is obligatory is required by law. This is therefore a
condition for those who accept Islam on enemy land where there is little
likelihood in knowing the requirements. One who lacks this knowledge on enemy
land is not obliged to fast provided he became Muslim in that place. However,
one may become aware of this obligation by being informed by two upright
Muslims, though the two companions maintained that it is not a condition that
they be upright. In contrast, a person being on Muslim land makes Ramadan
obligatory because ignorance is no excuse for him in this situation.


" Al-Ikhtiyar ١٨٢.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٦.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٢٣


egal lal ope y by
Conditions That Obligate One To Fast Ramadan
ULV y play > ٩ ٦p op dona: wll Oye b Atay


The conditions that make it obligatory to fast Ramadan are; to be free from ill
health,' menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding and to be a resident. If one is
travelling, then fasting is not compulsory, though if it is achievable, then it is
better to undertake its performance.


pe pallelsl inne by


The Conditions That Validate The Fasting Of Ramadan
odents Ey peliry pam pe ably Le bly al: SW shld bit,
The conditions that validate the fasting of Ramadan are three; they are, a)the
intention, b)to be free from anything that is contrary to fasting, such as menstrual
periods or postnatal bleeding and c)to be free from all things that break the fast.
atti ye MILA,


It is not a condition to be free from sexual discharge. This means that a person
may have had unconscious discharge while sleeping, or one may have had
intercourse prior to dawn and did not remove the filth until after dawn. This
discharge that remains on the body or clothes until after the dawn arrives does
not affect the fast.


trall ٣٥)The Pillar Of Fasting
be GAT beg ely phd ٥ sgt Lad ٣٦ US AS ٥


The pillar of fasting is to abstain from the desire for food, sexual intercourse and
that which has the same legal status of both, such as medicine entering the body
through a deep cut.


prall ٣I
The Outcome Of Fasting
ehel ails HW Golly LU yc Cot ll b yin Koy


The legal consequence that is derived from fasting is: the compulsory obligation
that one is obliged to perform is cleared. And the individual is rewarded in the
hereafter, by the will of God and Allah knows best.


" The law requires that one be of sound health. If one is ill, then he is permitted to break the
fast and make up the day when he recovers.


٣٢٤ Book IV: FASTING


jai
pad JS Olay + ¢ pall Lisi
The T; Fasts And The Description Of Each T;
eLsl x. JJ Cal ents
Fasting is divided into six types;
٠٩ Say Jey oydiny Opry oly ٣
١- Obligatory(fard)٢- Necessary(wajib)٣- Sunna
٤- Recommended(desirable)٥- Voluntary(nafl), ٦- Disliked.
Og psd AUS poy oLaady olal Oar, p pos ygd ٥٢ all Ll


١- As for the obligatory fasts, they are, i)the fasting of the current Ramadan or an
unperformed Ramadan, ii)expiation fasts(kaffarah)which a person must perform
should he violate certain rules during Ramadan, and iii)nédhr(which is the fast
one vows to perform, and this is according to the evident view due to the saying of
Allah[Then let them abide by their vows]."


HE cys odendl Le ola: yg Gol SLM,


٢- As for the wajtb type of fast, it is the voluntary fast that was ruined(meaning, if
a person begins to observe a voluntary fast and thereafter breaks it, then it
becomes necessary to make up as an act of worship).


Co pa elaptle pe pe Oretiul,


٣. As for the sunna type, it is the day of Ashura(which is the ١٠" day of
Muharram)including the ٩". The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))sent a person on the morning of Ashura to the villages of Ansar around Medina(with the following message): He who got up in the morning fasting(without
eating anything)should complete his fast and he who had breakfast in the
morning, should complete the rest of the day(without food). The Companions
said; We henceforth observed that.


PE al My fe CMS gaye pel UM ES Sats pet IS op BH ٦ pe ygd Stl Ul


pt ably





" Al-Hajj ٢٩
٢ Muslim ١١٣٥.

