BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٣


١ yall ead OL


Performing Missed Prayers
wh pS


The Ruling With Respect To The Order Of Prayer(٩٥ Gl)Go tN pill yy BS Sy I Ow Cl


To maintain a sequential order between a missed prayer and the current one is
necessary; that is, one must offer the missed prayer before the current one. If
there are a few missed prayers, the sequential order is also required between the
missed prayers themselves provided they are less than six. For example, if a
person misses the fajr, dhuhr, 'asr and maghrib, then he must perform them in
order and thereafter offer the current prayer, in this case the 'isha. The reason a
sequential order is required is due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))[Whoever missed a prayer due to sleep or forgetfulness and
did not remember it until he was praying with the imam, he must complete the
one he is praying, and then pray the one he missed, and thereafter repeat the one
he prayed with the imam))."


el bin
That Which Excuses The Order
eLtlewrl hin,
The order is excused with one of three things;
OLS y ee Greed oS Il ٥٨


١- The order is excused when the desirable part of the prayer time is insufficient
in allowing the performance of the missed prayers plus the current one, and this is
the most correct view. An example of the disliked times, is the period before
sunset, in which case one may pray the current prayer, then the missed one if he
cannot pray both in the desirable time.
٢- Forgetting is an exception to the order because a person cannot offer something
he cannot remember.

ah ٥ oS Oly ٦ Undine de Yale sil pe Ew sl pill ole b٣],
٣- The third is when the missed prayers become six not including the witr. Verily,
the witr is not a reason to excuse the order even though one must still perform it
in order after the 'isha prayer. Note: The reason the order is excused when a
person misses six prayers is because if one had to repeat them in order, it would
burden him and Islam is opposed to this as Allah said, which means[He has
chosen you, and has imposed no difficulties on you in religion].'


Darqutani ١/٤٢١.
Hajj ٦٨.

