BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Book I: Purification
CONTENTS:


The Chapter Of Purification
That Which Is Permissible For Purification
'Types of Water
When Does Water Become Used
That Which Is Not Permissible for Ablution
That Which overwhelms The Water
The Rulings of Remnant Water « Su'r »


Utensils and Clothes
Investigating The Purity Of Utensils And Clothes


Wells And Their Purification


Istinja And The Necessary Actions Prior To Wudu
The Ruling Of Istinja
How To Perform Istinja
What Is And Is Not Permissible To Use
That Which Is Disliked To Use In Istinja
The Etiquettes Of Performing One's Need


Ablution
The Pillars of Ablution
The Reason For Wudu
Conditions That Obligate Wudu
Conditions That Validate Ablution
Fulfilling The Rulings Of Ablution
The Sunan Of Ablution
The Etiquettes Of Wudu(Recommended Measures)That Which Is Disliked In Wudu
Categories of Wudu
Nullifications
That Which Does Not Nullify Wudu


The Purification Bath « Ghusl »
That Which Obligates The Purification Bath(Major Bath)That Which Does Not Obligate The Bath
That Which Is Compulsory To Wash
The Sunan
The Etiquettes And Disliked Actions
The Chapter Of When Ghusl Is Sunna And Recommended
Occasions When It Is Sunna To Perform Ghusl
Occasions When It Is Recommended To Perform Ghusl


٣٦


٣٧


٢٩


BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Dry Ablution « Tayammum »


Conditions That Validate Tayammum

The Reason And Conditions That Obligate It

The Pillars Of Tayammum

The Sunan Of Tayammum

When To Delay Tayammum

Requesting Water

Prayer With Tayammum

Nullifications Of Tayammum

The Ruling Of The Wounded With No Hands Or Feet


Wiping The Footgear « Khuf »»


The Ruling Of Wiping The Khuf

Conditions that Permit The Wiping

The Duration Of The Wiping And When It Begins
Changing One's Status

The Portion Which Is Compulsory To Wipe And Its Sunna
Nullifications Of The Wiping

That Which Is Not Permitted To Wipe On

Wiping the Splint And The Like


Menstrual Period / Postnatal And Chronic Vaginal Discharge


The Types Of Blood

Menstrual Bleeding

Postnatal Bleeding

Chronic Vaginal Discharge

Pure Days Between Two Menstrual Periods

Forbidden Actions During Menstrual Periods and Postnatal Bleeding
That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Janaba[Major Impurity]That Which Is Unlawful In The State of Minor Impurity

Chronic Vaginal Discharge And Its Ruling

Nullification Of Wudu For One Deemed Excused

When Is One Deemed Excused

The Condition Required To Remain Excused

The Condition That Nullifies One's Exemption


Filth « Najasa » And Its Purification


The Types Of Filth

Examples Of Heavy Filth

Examples of Light Filth

The Degree Of Filth That Is Excused
Purification Of The Filth

Liquid Purifiers

Purifying The Hide Of A Dead Animal


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣١


i٥Ugla)| Ss
The Chapter Of Purification'
ol oo pebel ٥ ٩٢
That Which Is Permissible For Purification
tlie ame bee plas! ٥ ٩ Atoll!
The types of water permissible for purification are seven:
pall olay a soley all cley cI eley ged olay pall obey ol tt el


Rain water, ocean water, river water. Water from wells. Water from melted snow.
Hail water upon melting, and spring water. This is due to the saying of Allah[He(Allah)caused rain to descend from the heaven, to clean you therewithj;' and also
due to the words of the Prophet((Peace and blessings of Allah be upon him))[Water is pure and is not rendered impure by anything, except a thing that alters
its colour, taste or smell]. In addition there are the words of the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))regarding rivers[Its water is pure and the dead
things in it are permissible].


allt ¢Lal


The Types Of Water


Litt im Je olll
Water is divided into five types
GUL AW ya yey So nb poles jal Jy!


١/ The first type is water that is pure in itself, and is purifying for other things.
There is no dislike in using this type of water, which is plain water commonly
termed mutlaq water. This means that the essence of the water is pure and that it
can cleanse other things.


WE IS y ba gon y ٥ DI are cs Le gg oy So glee pale GUI,


٢/ The second type is water that is pure in itself and is purifying for other things,
although it is disliked to use because it is a small quantity of water that a cat or a
similar animal has drunk from.


" The term tahara(purification)is used in the Arabic language as cleanliness, regardless
whether it be in reference to something physical or spiritual. Allah the Exalted said(Take from
their wealth so that you might purify and sanctify them).(Quran: ٩;١٠٣]. The term tahara in its
juristic sense means; The ruling given to the place where prayer is concerned(place — meaning,
one's body, clothes and area where one prays), the cause being clean water or clean earth which
is deemed suitable for tayammum when there is no water.[Nur al-Idah].


; Quran ٢٥: ٤٨


٣٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


et peg Je ene MSE MI lode bd fects yay gle pt pb;


٣/ The third type is water that is pure in itself, though is not purifying for other
things. This is water that one has used to remove his minor impurity(either
through the process of wudu or bathing)or water used to make wudu upon with
the intention of attaining the pleasure of God. Verily, if a person already in the
state of wudu renews his wudu without intending the pleasure or nearness of God,
it is classified as wastage because one is already in wudu. In addition, when
making wudu upon wudu for the purpose of closeness to God, the second wudu
must be made at a different place to that of the first, otherwise it is regarded as
wastage(even if one intended nearness to God). If one makes wudu upon wudu in


the same place, it is disliked and the water from the second wudu is not regarded
as used water[musta'mal].


Moreover, nearness to God can be achieved by washing the hands before and
after eating given that the Prophet said "Wudu(the intended meaning is — the washing
of the hands)is a blessing prior to eating."' Therefore, if one washes his hands in
the state of wudu and intended nearness to God, the water is deemed used[musta 'mal]. If nearness to God is not the objective, the water is not deemed used.'


Furthermore, used water[musta'mal]is fit for the purification of physical filth[najasa hagigiyya| from the body or clothes, such as urine, pus and wine, but it not
purifying for major or minor impurity[hadath| and therefore unfit for wudu and ghusl.
Overall, the water used to remove one's minor impurity or the water used to make wudu upon


wudu(intending the pleasure of God)is deemed used water. It is not valid to perform wudu or
bath with this used water.'


e Sian oll Tr gs
When Does Water Become Used?
Andel -٥٦ aSlaail > pees Worrell press


Water becomes used right after it separates from the body. For example, a person
who is washing his arm renders the water used right after it separates from the


limb.
٤+ ٩٢ sj YL
That Which Is Not Permitted For Wudu
AE ٥ pat bop tee Jy ply tle EVs


One is not permitted to make wudu with tree water or fruit water(fruit juice)even
if the water flows out by itself without being squeezed, and this is the most
evident view on the basis that it has been mixed and is no longer plain water. An
example is the juice from grapes.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٣.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٣.
٩ Maraky al-Falah ١٣ | Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٢.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٣


ale one they sl bbb jel Vy


Likewise, it is not permitted to use water that has lost its essence(or nature)through cooking, or through the water being overwhelmed(or dominated)by
another substance. The nature of water is to be thin and easy flowing, and if it
loses this nature through cooking or due to a substance defeating the water, then
this change renders the water unfit for wudu, such as when one cooks lentils in
the water and allows it to dry, it becomes hardened, which then deems it invalid
to use. Note: water may be defeated by solid or liquid substances.


Ad OS
That Which Overwhelms The Water
heey iy ge Wl hep AL dase ELL,
Pm ٣٩٩٩ YS y OI Ab ٥S dalow YS silo yi pai per Vy


When mixed with a solid substance, the water is overwhelmed when it loses its
thin and easy flowing nature, in which case it is not fit for ablution. If however,
the water retains its flowing nature even after mixing with a solid, such as saffron,
fruit or tree leaves, it remains permissible to use even if the water loses all its
qualities such as colour, smell or taste. This means that if a solid such as leaves or
apples mix with the water, but the water retains its flowing nature, then it does
not affect the status of the water, even if some characteristics of the water change,
such as its colour. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))stated the
following words regarding the man who fell down from his camel and died[Wash
him with water and lotus leaves, and shroud him in two garments]." This indicates
that if objects such as lotus leaves fall in the water it is of no harm, for the water
has retained its essence.


apelin Dash Vy pabally Ol a)US dad lie y A)tle ye to ty cine yo gpl, SUSU LL,
Jets ox ٤ eb cr mes
When water is mixed with a liquid substance that has characteristics, such as
taste, colour and smell, the water is overwhelmed when the following occurs; there
are some liquids that have two characteristics, such as milk, which has colour and
taste but no smell. When one of these two appears in the water, it is regarded as
overwhelmed. Additionally, there are liquids that consist of three characteristics
such as vinegar, which has smell, taste, and colour. When two of these three
appear, the water is deemed overwhelmed. Hence, when one from two appears
and when two from three appears, the water is deemed unfit because it has been
dominated. Therefore, when liquid substances mix with the water, it is assessed by the


qualities of taste, colour, and smell and when solids mix with the water, it ts assessed by its
qualities of thinness and flowing nature.


" Bukhari ١٢٦٨


٣٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


LH Of U٥ NL ٠S Hut I pbs oN obey Joell US Itoy Y Gill itll Lal,


De Kanye ped gil ay ٥٩٦ V glad oye Jb parr tt ell op» orb,

In the case of water mixing with a liquid substance which has no characteristic to
it, such as previously used water or rose water that has lost its smell, then it is
assessed by weight. That is, if two ratls of used water mixes with one rat of plain
water(mutlaq), then ablution is not permitted with this water. If the opposite
occurs, it is permissible. Note: a raél is both a weight and a volumetric measure.
One ratl in Baghdad measure is equal to ٣٨٤.٢٤٠ grams. Two ratls are therefore
equal to ٧٦٩ grams. "


rd pte J pe ٩٩ le flay HUF NIST, OWS y dle ad > CUI ay rd ole aS


٤٣ a JI gle dol,

٤/ The fourth type is filthy(najis)water. This is a small quantity of still water into
which an impurity has fallen. The water is deemed impure even if no trace of the
filth appears therein. A small quantity of water is considered as less than ten by
ten arm lengths.' Note: water can be retained in a place that is either — square,
circular or rectangular as is seen in ponds and basins. If the place is square and
the length of each side is ten arm lengths(i.e. its area is ten by ten general arm
lengths), then it is considered as a large amount of water. If it is less, then it is
deemed as a small quantity. If the water is in a place that is circular and the
circumference is thirty six arms length, it is considered a large quantity of water.
If it is less, the water is considered as a small quantity. And with respect to a large
quantity, the depth is such that if one reaches into it to scoop up water, the base of
the water would not appear. Therefore, if one knows for sure or strongly believes
that filth[najis]has fallen in a small quantity of still water, then it is regarded impure,
even if no trace of the filth appears therein.' Though if the water is considered as
a large quantity of water, and an impurity falls in — it does not become filthy
unless the trait of filth becomes noticeable therein; and this is the soundest view.'


With respect to this type of water, it is not permitted to remove pAysical or legal
filth with it. As for Shafi'i, he held that the small quantity of water is restricted to
less than gudlatayn(i.e. less than ٢١٦ litres);? so that if the water reaches gullatayn(i.e. ٢١٦ litres)and an impurity falls in, though no sign of its colour, taste or smell
become apparent, then it is deemed pure, given that the Prophet said[If the water
reaches quilatayn(or ٢١٦ litres), then it does not carry filth].° If on the other hand,
the signs of filth do become apparent in ٢١٦ litres of water, then it is deemed


" Maraky al-Falah ١٦.[See page ٢٨ of this text for weights and measurements].

* An anm's length is considered as being from the tips of the fingers to the elbow(٤٨cm).

* Nur alIdah ١٤.

* ALFigh al-Islamy ٣٣.

? Qullatayn which the dual word of gulla equates to ٥٠٠ ratl in Baghdad terms.

% Reported by the five, and Ibn Habban graded it as sound. Moreover, the meaning of '/t
does not carry filth,' means that it does not become impure.[Fiqh alIslamy ٣٤].


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٥


filthy. However, the Hanafis explained this hadith of qudlatayn stating that the
narrations conflict in this regard; for some state when the water reaches one qulla
and some state three and some state forty.'


c٢٧ HOS sT ab SV, be glad by bole ol
If however, an impurity falls in running water and the signs of filth appear in it,
then it is deemed impure. The signs(or traces)of filth are taste, colour or smell.
Though if the filth is not evident or noticeable, then wudu is permitted because
the filth does not remain due to the flow of the water. Note: running water is one


that is not used repeatedly, such that if one scoops up water once, it will not be the
same water when one scoops it up the next time.


pa BT gle es SL yng ey gg GN Steele ld,


٥/ The fifth type of water is that which is doubtful with respect to its purifying
other things, and not with respect to its actual purity.? This is water which a
donkey or mule has drunk from. This doubt will be explained shortly.


re Sl bad
The Rulings of Remnant Water[Su'r]'
Lg pny pl dul fo ٠٩K Ol yr aro ١٣ Pal ely


If an animal drinks from a smal]amount of water, the remaining water is called
su'r, and there are four categories:


aad Sp be gh ٣ ol palace tle yay gle pale : JI


١. The first type is water that is pure in itself and is purifying for other things and
this is the water that a human drinks from, provided there is no filth in his mouth
at the time, such as alcohol; or water that a horse drinks from, for the leftover


water of the horse is pure according to the majority, or an animal whose meat is
lawful for consumption.


ie phe oe et ah pb gb NS G٢ gay Slated jt Y pd GI
tly spas


٢. The second type is filthy water that is not permissible to use. This is water that


a dog, pig or predatory land animal, such as a cheetah, fox or wolf have drunk
from.


; Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Silkini ٣٤.

? That is, the doubt does not pertain to the purity of this water; rather, the doubt pertains
to whether it can purify other things.

* Su'r is known as the remainder. Legally, it is the small quantity of water which remains
after a human or animal have drunk. This means that the water of a river or ocean cannot
be termed sur even if thousands of people or animals drink from its water.


PANS pbal Flame y SHSM dle y ٥ Al ٥ yg one ogy ee Sel oy Ke SIU,


wm aI EWS(Spl Sty y)Lably Cra ly


٣. The third type is water that is disliked to use in the presence of plain water.
Meaning if plain unmixed water is available, it becomes disliked to use this type
of water. This is the leftover water of a cat, stray chicken, predatory bird such as
an eagle, falcon and glede as well as animals that tend to be located in or around
the home such as a rat or snake, though there is no dislike in using the leftover
water of a scorpion. The reason for a stray chicken is because it is free to roam
and one cannot be sure if it has eaten something filthy or not. If however the
chicken is caged, then its leftover water is not disliked. Moreover, with respect to
why predatory birds are in this type and their difference to predatory animals, is
that predatory land animals drink with their tongues, and this is wet with saliva
that is deemed impure, whereas predatory birds drink with their beak, and their
beaks are bones which are pure.


ee pb peciy gle gone dt ١ ob lt Bed pe pay rth GAR IN
٤. The fourth type is water that is suspect(doubtful)with respect to its purity.
This is the left over water of a mule or donkey. If there is mo other water
available, then one is permitted to make ablution with this type and then make


tayammum, followed by prayer. The reason one also observes tayammum is
precautionary in case the wudu is not accepted due to the water.


tly GIVI spall d pad
Investigating Utensils And Clothes
rly ٣٢ Ws Fo plb ls si oti bet
If some pots containing clean water are placed near some pots that contain filthy
water, though the majority is clean, then a person is required to investigate that


which he can use for wudu and drinking. Note: A person may investigate for
drinking out of necessity.


we UY! ٦ pen ¥ Les be ssi ols oly
If the majority are filthy, then a person investigates the matter only for drinking.
This may arise due to necessity such as extreme thirst in a distant place where one


fears for his life. This being the case, the person is exempt from having to
investigate the water with respect to wudu because the majority is impure.


Leos gil alb Le ٢٥l OS ele ٥ eee daa OL G,


With respect to clean clothes mixing with filthy clothes, one must investigate to
determine which items are to be worn regardless if the majority of them are filthy
or clean, for it is better to pray in clothes that are completely impure, than to
perform prayer naked.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٧


La pgs y LVI olsol ٣ ad
Wells And Their Purification
Pe gh po bai Ny Ye oe - CN Ly - Soles Epi peal Nes


All the water is to be withdrawn from a small well if an impurity falls in, even if
the impurity is small such as a drop of blood or alcohol. This is because a small
impurity renders a small quantity of water impure, even if it does not visibly
appear in the water. Though this rule excludes a small amount of dung, for the
reason that a small amount is unavoidable and is therefore ignored. However, it is
not ignored in an excessive quantity. The reason a small amount is ignored is
because the mouths of wells are generally not covered and cattle drop their dung
around them and these are then cast into the wells by the wind.


Led eat gh BLE sl IS ms gary ell aad res dh Ct Ny ner Eyes


Likewise, all the water is to be withdrawn if a pig falls in the well, even if it comes
out alive and its tongue did not touch the water. The reason for this is that all
parts of the pig are deemed impure, so any part of the pig that touches the water
instantly renders it filthy. Also, if a dog, sheep or human die in the well, then all
the water is to be withdrawn. It is reported that when a man died in Zamzam
water this is what Ibn Abbas and Ibn al-Zubair(God be pleased with them)ordered with many of the Companions present with no objection. Equally, with
respect to the dog, death is conditional because it is completely pure with the
exception of its tongue; which means if the dog does not die in the well and exits
the water with its tongue not touching it, then the water remains pure."


ler par d Seg Bley lee shy dl ym Cll,


Furthermore, all the water is to be withdrawn if there is a dead bloated animal in
the water, even if it is a small animal, for the reason that its filth has spread into
the water given the fact that it is bloated which indicates it has been there for a
while. If it is not possible to withdraw all the water, then it is necessary to expel
٢٠٠ buckets of water from the well. Note; the buckets are to be of average size,
usually the bucket used for the well itself.


Nolo on te HD aps shi YS Sb OL yl yo CI Fed pu slip shoteo kd ib
goin; Le My Hatt, ٢b aye AUS OMS,

If however, a chicken, cat, or something of the like dies in the water, then ٤٠

buckets must be withdrawn. If a rat dies, or something of the like, then ٢٠ buckets


are to be withdrawn. And this action of taking out the water purifies the well,
bucket, rope and the hand of the person cleaning the well. This is the verdict from


Imam Abu Yusuf and Imam Hasan.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٣.


٣٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Bye oF go ht Vol gl BU e ٢ ONY]dy Sy Jt pol pS pa Vy


The water of the well is not made impure with the dung of camels, sheep,
horses, mules, donkeys and cows etc., unless a large amount is visible or
unless there is a situation that in every bucket, there is dung present in which
case all the water is to be withdrawn.
pynasy eles su lll ia Vy

Likewise, the droppings of pigeons or sparrows do not ruin the well-water, i.e. the
birds that are lawful to eat, because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))thanked the pigeon and said[Verily, it nested on the door of the cave until
I was safe, and may Allah reward it with the masjid as its home]." And Ibn Mas'ud
wiped away the droppings of a bird with his hand. This is the opted view in many


of the Hanafi books. The dispute between the scholars pertains to the droppings
of birds that are not lawful for consumption.'


Al ٩ ٩٥٣٩ LI Gry lll Ol yoy FAts y eS ٤٣٥ J Po Voow Vy


The death in water of a thing that does not have blood flowing through its body
does not render the water impure such as a fish, frog, aquatic creature, mosquito,
fly, wasp, scorpion, or the like. According to Shafi'i it does pollute the water.'


ne Eley sls Se Ey Vy doles wis fe oS dg > oF BL ot Sly pol ein Wy


col S٣٩


In addition, the water is not ruined with the falling of a human into the well or
the falling of that which is lawful to eat,' provided it comes out alive and there
was no filth present on the body when it fell in. Likewise, the water is not ruined
with the falling of a mule, donkey, and predatory bird into the well, provided they
exit the water alive and this is the soundest view.


aaS> Je]Ul Ll ait old roy oly


If the saliva of the animal touches the water, then the water is judged according to
the animal; meaning, if the saliva from a sheep touches the water, then the water
is assessed according to the sheep - which is pure, but if the saliva of a dog touches
the water, then we assess the water according to the dog which results in its being
deemed filthy. Hence, the water is ruled based on the animal.


MLSs ٦٥٢ cre pms Ug Ce Ol p> oy ٩٩


" Tabarani ٢٠/٤٤٣.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٥.
* Al-Hidayya ٢٩.


٤
Such as a camel, cow or sheep.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٩
If there is a dead animal in the water and no-one knows how long it has been
there, it renders the water impure for one day and one night; meaning the people
must repeat one day and night of prayer if they used that water to perform wudy
from.


٤٦ B٩٥ y plu dol Sl » Pll OW eiray


If the animal is bloated(swollen), then the water is ruled impure for three days
and three nights if no one knows when the animal fell in; meaning the People
must repeat three days and three nights of prayer provided they used this water to
make ablution from or used the water for the major bath. Note: if the animal is
bloated, this indicates that it has been in the water for some time and for this
reason the water is deemed impure for three days and three nights. If however the
people only used the well-water to wash their filthy clothes and not for wudu, then
they need not repeat their prayers, though they must wash their clothes again.


+ ٠ Sl Le ett OS ey ole G[rad
Istinja? And That Which is Required Prior To Wudu
gh glade sl ecocsll gl tll Le]Gale > fe al sabes dy SS a٢ ee Lee Jo Meh
J yl ety Sy ٥p take o> ep NU G٩ Ald yt Vy oe


On passing urine, a person must ensure that the leakage of urine has stopped and
his mind is satisfied concerning the issue. This is achieved through one's regular
habits, such as walking, coughing, or leaning on one's side. The woman is not
required to do this. She is to wait a small time and then clean herself. It is not
permissible to begin wudu until one is satisfied that the leakage of urine has
stopped.

tl VI SS


The Ruling Of Istinja
CPL sales de kN oe CF rs op Se ele Wy


Istinja is sunna when the filth that exits from the private part has not spread past
the boundary of the outlet. For example; if a person defecates and the faecal
matter does not smear beyond the perimeter of the anus, then istinja is sunna.
This applies to male and female.


٢ Fi om Al be a١٥ Ly UL Ij)my pm pal ٥ OLS ٥ LE OL,


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦.


* Linguistically, istinja is to wipe or wash the place where excrement is discharged.
Excrement is the term given for that which exits the bowel. According to scholars of
jurisprudence, it is the removal of filth with water or the like.


٤٠ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


If the filth crosses the boundary of its outlet and is equal to the size of a dirham,'
it is necessary to remove it with water or with a liquid cleanser such as rose water.
And if the filth passes the boundary of the outlet and is more than the size of a
dirham, then it is obligatory to clean with water.


Additionally, when a person is observing the major bath from post intercourse
discharge, menstrual bleeding and postnatal bleeding, it is obligatory to wash the


filth in the exit passage, even if it is a minimal quantity. One is not to exert
difficulty upon himself when undertaking this cleaning.


pnts pd cemed edly oll Gy aall Pad y oT UL Pally opty Gu re es Ol ey


pd Ul le parts ol jt
It is sunna to perform istinja with a clean stone or the like provided it is not rough
such as burnt clay and not valuable, and washing with water is superior than
simply wiping the filthy area. Whereas the best method is to combine between
washing with water and wiping. Hence, the individual wipes, and then washes.
And it is permitted if a person uses only one method; meaning, if one restricts the
cleaning to washing only, it is permitted and vice versa.


Le ٩٩ lo telat fea Ot Lai glared OWL nd BIS pe eV yds gla VIG oaally[nll lai]Ey


The sunna is to purify the area, and to use a prescribed number of stones is
recommended, and not an emphasized sunna, and the recommended number of
stones to use is three, even if the area is cleaned in less than that. Imam Shafi'i
said that three is necessary due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[Perform istinja with three stones]. The Hanafis rely on the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[Whomever
cleaned, then he should clean in odd numbers, and whoever observed this, has
done well and whoever did not, there is no blame].'


How To Perform Istinja


BYs dahl ols ١٣١ als


If the males scrotum is hanging loosely(or stretched), then the procedure of
istinja is as follows: one is to wipe with the first stone from the front part(near the
testicles)through to the rear, and with the second from the rear to the front, and
with the third from the front to the rear, and this is the etiquette. Moreover, the
reason this procedure is related with a long scrotum is because it is recommended
to conclude the wiping at the rear so that the filth is not brought to the front and
spread all over due to the long scrotum.


" A dirham = ٢٠ qirat with respect to solids(or approx ٣.٥ grams)and with respect to fluid, the
size is equivalent to its area(or the expanse of a large coin). Maraky al-Falah ٢٨.
* Abu Dawud ٣٥.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٤}elas SI abe oy cdg BY ne CIS Oly


If however, the scrotum is not hanging loosely, then one is to begin from the rear
to front because in this situation, cleaning can be optimally achieved.


gr Pte gh Ett WE I pli oo egal tt,
The female is to begin from the front to the rear, for fear of defiling her vagina.
chal ole gl awl I Cool bly UL fod Ua ٠٥ UL YI oy Jenks!


After wiping, the male is to first wash his hand because if he first touches the
soiled area while his hand is dry, it may soak the faeces into the skin; thereafter,


he is to rub the soiled area with water using the inside of his finger, two fingers or
three if needed.


Bam ly ane]Le pats Vy ٠ pay dana: od ele Wi ela! Gad Jo ghee Marne! be Juans


The male is to raise his middle finger over the other fingers at the beginning of
the istinja, and thereafter is to raise his ring finger forward, as it insures optimum


cleaning. The male is not to restrict the cleaning to only one finger because
cleaning will not be optimally achieved.


BAU! J pram ٢٢> clisl Lee gull bu gly le par deuai al II,


The female is to raise her ring finger along with her middle fingers
simultaneously at the start of istinja for fear of being sexually aroused. This means
that the woman uses the majority of her fingers when she begins.[she ٣S Jo sand Let by dy SU oul Ni chs o> ikl J ley
One is to perform the utmost in cleaning the area until the foul smell is gone, and
is to thoroughly relax the buttocks or hips in order to clean what is in the passage
to the best of one's ability, though this relaxation of the buttocks(and hips)is
performed provided one is not fasting, and the basis for this is that there is water


present around the anus which will nullify one's fast if it enters, and one must be


cautious not to allow their wet finger from entering the private area, otherwise,
the fast breaks.(glee ol ١٣}eal fo Gtate ars y Ll ody font t» las


When one finishes from cleaning the soiled area with water, the hand is to be
washed for the second time and the buttocks are to be dried before standing if the
person is fasting, because if one is fasting and the buttocks are wet, it may be
drawn in when standing which could nullify the fast.


٤٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


StL liad She dado Slay cas hye Vlog cele Vlg ٥٩٤ Ld bead


What Is and Is Not Permitted To Use In Istinja
And What Is Disliked At The Time Of Relief


pl ٨)dl ٢٢٥ ٥ t Y


It is mot permitted to expose the private area[awrah]for istinja during the
presence of others. If there are onlookers, then istinja is performed under the
clothes. If one uncovers the private area in the presence of others, he is regarded
as an immoral person[fasig}due to its unlawfulness.


SE y ٦ aby jp Le dey ١٣]Ball ane cera Von pill pi oj gle oly Yr F ee oj slZ ١
OMe cp AE Ey I ٨S AS cp IY


If the filth crosses the boundary of one's exit passage and is greater than the size
of a dirham, prayer is not valid if there is something available to remove the
impurity, such as water. One is to do his best in removing the impurity without
exposing the private area to onlookers.


tlaxw Via o SL


That Which Is Disliked To Use In Istinja
dene ٣ wey elabs pe tla! oy


It is disliked to use bones and the food of humans or animals because it is deemed
as waste and because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))prevented us from doing so as he said[Do not perform istinja with faeces or bones,
for it is food for your brothers of the jinn]and he said[Do not waste, do not
waste]."


se eV)sal dhs chai y cle BSS ٦ FE oot Gara clrda pry es aly


It is disliked to use baked bricks and anything made with fire, such as tiles, as well
as earthenware, charcoal, glass, gypsum and items of value or respectable such as
silk or cotton. It is disliked to use the right hand unless there is a valid reason.
Salman said[The Prophet forbade us from cleaning the private parts with the
right hand, and from cleansing with less than three stones, or cleansing with dung
or bone].' The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[When
anyone of you urinates, he must not touch his penis with his right hand, and when
he goes to relieve himself he must not wipe with his right hand, and when he
drinks, he must not drink in one breath].?


" Reported by an-Nasai ١/٧٢ and Ibn Majah ٤٢٤ - The Book of Purification and its Sunna.
* Bukhari and Muslim ٢٦٧.
* Abu Dawud ٣١.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٤٣


The Etiquette Of Performing One's Need(Adab
Sg AS pee MOU ys il dary ٥ pall abe A Jory


One is to enter the lavatory with the left foot and is to seek protection in Allah
from Satan the rejected before entering. The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[The cover between the eyes of the jinn and the private parts of
the children of Adam is when the person enters the lavatory, he says, "In the
name of Allah"]." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[The evil ones of the jinns are present, so if anyone enters the lavatory, he should
say, 'I seek refuge with Allah from the unclean spirits, male and female'}."


٨٩٩ pA)VY]AS Vy pln Je lara ley


One is to sit leaning upon his left side and is not to talk unless there is a need.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[When two persons go
together for relieving themselves uncovering their private parts and talking
together, Allah the Great and Majestic, becomes wrathful at this action].


Le Sly Le lscel y ALi Land ly F ٠ Sy


It is prohibitively disliked to face the qibla at the time of relief and to turn around
giving it one's back even if the toilet is within a building. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[If the need to defecate arose, then do not face the
qibla, and do not turn around giving it your back, however turn east or west.'


peally oeecdi OTe Shaul y
To face the sun or moon directly is disliked because they are great signs of Allah's
creation.
cle


To face a blowing wind is disliked at the time of relief because the filth is likely to
be blown back onto one's body or clothes.


pally Ul bb yas ghd ole Sy


It is disliked to urinate or defecate in water even if it is flowing, and the same
applies in a place of shade because it may be a rest area for other people.


Sail, asl,


" At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ٦٠٦.
? Abu Dawud ٦.

> Abu Dawud ١٥.

* Bukhari ١٤٤.


٤٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


It is disapproved to urinate or defecate in a hole, on a road or a cemetery as the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said: "Fear the two that are
cursed." They inquired, "Who are those that are cursed O Messenger of Allah?"
He said, "The one that relieves himself in the road or walkway of the people or in
their shade."!


bated mee Sy
To relieve oneself under a fruit tree is disapproved.


she WS٦ J sls


To urinate standing is disliked unless there is a reason, such as an injured back. It
is also disliked to urinate in the place of wudu due to the onset of satanic whispers
which may be brought on by such a practice and because there is prohibition
from exposing the private parts whilst standing as Anas(Allah be pleased with
him)said[If the Prophet wanted to attend to a need, he would not lift his clothes
until he was close to the ground]."


* One is to exit the lavatory with the right leg because it has more right to be
advanced when exiting such a place.


BUley ٥١ ge ail GAN ab ١ I pa


- One is then to say, "All praise be to Allah, the One who has repelled harm from me and
protected me." And the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said at the
time of exiting[I ask your forgiveness].'





" Muslim ٢٦٩.
* At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ١٤.
* Abu Dawud ٣٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٤٥
+ yd all a pas


The Chapter Of Wudu(Ablution)The Messenger of Allah(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "When a
person performs ablution and rinses his mouth, his wrong deeds fall from it. As
he rinses his nose, his wrong deeds fall from it. When he washes his face, his
wrong deeds fall from it until they fall from beneath his eyelashes. When he
washes his hands, his wrong deeds fall from them until they fall from beneath the
fingernails. When he wipes his head, his wrong deeds fall from it until they fall
from his ears. When he washes his feet, his wrong deeds fall from them until they
fall from beneath his toenails. Then his walking to the masjid and his prayer give
him extra reward."! Allah the exalted said in relation to wudu[O you who believe!


When you prepare for prayer wash your faces and your hands(and arms)to the
elbows; Rub your head(with water)and(wash)your feet to the ankles].'


¢ pb gh Als JI
The Pillars Of Wudu
att bay dele yd sil OLS |
The pillars of wudu are four; and these are its obligatory features:
CB fares Gy Lea ody SFL fad Mgt cela Lise oye Vb ote y cae git Lei VI


The first of these is to wash the face, due to the saying of Allah((Wash your
faces)),' and its limit length wise, is from the start of the top of the forehead(typically from the hairline)to the bottom of the chin. And breadth wise, its limit is
the area between the two ear lobes. The definition of washing is that at least a
couple of drops should flow from the limb.


ap rad J: Gly
The second is to wash the hands with the arms(and elbows)once.
٤S t at), jb : KS,


The third is to wash the feet with the ankles as the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))once observed some people performing ablution while their


heels were dry. He then said[Woe to the(dry)heels from Hellfire. Perform
ablution in fulll.'


" Malik, an-Nasai and Ibn Majah.
٢ Al-Maida ٦.

٣ Al-Maida ٦

' Abu Dawud ٩٧.


٤٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ly em ails


The fourth pillar is to wipe a quarter of the head as the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))wiped the front of his head."


+٦ Som
The Reason For Wudu
BV Ga: oy FV Seg ug yt Se pay VW[EV Gall ey


Its reason is to make lawful those actions that cannot be valid except with wudu.
This is its ruling pertaining to this life, while in the hereafter; it is the attainment
of rewards.


٧٢ Nora by
Conditions Which Obligate Wudu
CALs & sll y fist yey b pty


The conditions that render wudu obligatory are sanity, maturity, and Islam. Note:
the immature and insane person are not subject to the commands of the Sacred
law. A'ishah related that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said
"The pen has been lifted from three; "A sleeping man, until he wakes; an
immature person until he attains maturity and an insane person until he is
restored to his senses."" Likewise, if one is not Muslim, he is not subject to the
Sacred law with respect to prayer. Additionally, maturity is attained when one
experiences a dream of a sexual nature. Though if this does not occur, then one
Hanafi view maintains that he attains maturity at the age of fifteen years as is the
opinion of the two disciples(Abu Yusuf and Muhammad)as well as Imam Shafi'i
and Ahmad. Another Hanafi view maintains that it is at eighteen years, as is the
view of Ibn Abbas. However, the fatwa issued on the matter is according to the
view of the two disciples.°


ISI ell Jl arul ae ٨ AS ٩


Additionally, one must have the ability to use a sufficient amount of water to
wash the required limbs at least once. Note: not having water or needing it due to
a necessity negates one's ability; for there is no ability unless there is water. In
addition, having the ability means to have a sufficient amount for wudu. If one does
not possess this quantity, then it is like one who does not have water.
Furthermore, if one has water but has no rope by which to extract it from a well,
then he is not legally able to use the water.


" An-Nasai, Muslim-The Book of Purification ٢٧٥.
* Ibn Majah ٢٠٤١.
* Rawai"ul Bayan, Shaykh Muhammad Ali Sabuni ٢٠٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٤٧


Being in a state of minor ritual impurity obligates wudu because the performance


of wudu for one who is already in the state of wudu is not required. Likewise, the
absence of menstrual periods and postnatal bleeding requires the performance of


ablution.

٥ SN Gey
When there is inadequate time left for the obligatory prayer, the wudu must be
made immediately. Note: at the beginning of the time of prayer, one has an


extended time in which he can make wudu and offer prayer, though when the
time is cramped, this obligates the wudu immediately.


t po yl dn b ٣ rp
Conditions That Validate Wudu
OW crnw b ry ٣
The conditions that validate wudu are three;
J tbl! eUlL ٣ pol e pee
١. Pure water is to reach the complete outer skin, and if the area of a pin hole
remains in which water does not touch from the parts that are obligatory to wash,
wudu is not valid.
Sms platy a> cp ably le plaal,
٢. The things that are incompatible with wudu must cease before commencing
wudu, such as menstrual periods, postnatal bleeding and minor ritual impurity.


For example, if there is urine or blood which flows at the time of wudu, it is
invalid.


prery Cats tenth SW poy ear dlyiy
٣. One must remove objects of dirt that prevent water from reaching the body,
such as wax or fatty grease; the same applies with nail polish, paint, or glue.


+o gh olSol EG pai
Fulfilling The Rulings Of Wudu
a gay be col GUS dal ale fe(Uo pe! Ge)OF
It is obligatory to wash the visible part of a thick beard, and this is the soundest
view upon which the fatwa is given. A thick beard is one that covers the skin,
which prevents others from seeing the skin of the face. And the reason it is
obligatory to wash what is apparent is due to its thickness that has now taken the


place of the skin of the face. Hence, the obligation passes from the skin to the
beard. It has also been mentioned that washing a quarter of the thick beard or


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧.


٤٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


wiping it suffices. Some held that it is sufficient to wash or wipe one third of it,
while others maintained that its ruling is like that of a small beard. However, the
view in the bold text above is the correct one. Furthermore, in Arabic text prior to
this paragraph, the author of Nur al-Idah used the word wajib instead of
obligatory, though what he meant in this particular instance is obligatory as was
made evident in his explanation in Maraky al-Falah.


Sat oN ٥ py Sf oll Slay(٤٢ te: od OHS


It is obligatory for water to reach the skin of a person with a small beard, one of
the reasons being that it is easy to wash and poses no hardship.


Ca te ck oye SUI Le SEV y am gil ٨ slo pe atl pe fee all Sf ell Jes! Ut Vy


It is not necessary for water to reach the hair that stretches from outside the
border of the face." And neither is it necessary for water to reach the section of
the lips that is hidden when the mouth is closed during wudu because what is
unseen is linked to the mouth and what is apparent is linked to the face.


Sa)ry TS lll ay Lb IS gl LGV)badd Abad JI i Leal
tls je(٢ sil


If the fingers are tightly held together in a manner that prevents water from
flowing in between them or the finger nails have grown over the finger tips and
prevented water from reaching the tips or if there is something which prevents
water from the skin such as dough, it becomes obligatory to wash it after
removing the obstruction.


apg Cel le py Oslo Vy


Substances such as insect dropping, the dung of fleas and things of the like do not
prevent water from reaching the skin. The washing is valid in the presence of such
things.


Goal EI Ob Fes


" That which is outside the perimeter or bounds of the face is not required to be washed.
Ibn Hajar explains in Sharh al-Minhaj: that which grows at the lower part of the chin is not
required to be washed, because when it grows, it will be outside the perimeter of the face.
As for what grows on the perimeter, one is required to wash what is within the perimeter
and not the excess outside the border; and likewise, the hair which grows within the
bounds of the face upon the cheeks is required to be washed, though not the surplus(outside the bounds). It is for this reason that al-Badai' states that the correct view is that it
is compulsory to wash the hair that meets with the cheeks(i.e. that which meets with the
perimeter)and that which is apparent on the chin, though not the extended part of the
beard outside the perimeter. According to Shafi'i, this is required.[Radd al-Muhtar ١/٢١٥].


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٤٩


It is mecessary to move around the tight ring during wudu on the basis that it
prevents the water from reaching the skin; and when the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))performed wudu, he moved his ring."


Uged dandy Si el pat fo ol Ip]Sle ale Git Leos Jy


If the washing of cuts on one's feet would cause harm or pain, it is permitted to
pass water over the medicine that is placed on the cuts.


ei sbey opt pal LAN Ys ail> tay ail and yo fo LaIY, a lobe Vy


One is not required to repeat the wiping on the place of the hair after it has been


shaved, and neither is one required to repeat the washing after cutting his nails or
moustache.


+٢ gl ope Oly b fad
The Sunan Of Wudu
Lt ees G
There are eighteen practices that are sunna in wudu;
cre MM cpt ne


١ — Washing the hands to the wrists prior to performing wudu. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((If one of you awakes from sleep, he
should not dip his hand in the container until he washes it three times, for verily
he does not know where his hand was)).?


٢ — To begin with the tasmiyyah, which is "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is
no prayer for one with no wudu, and there is no wudu for one who does not
mention the name of Allah on it]. The meaning of the hadith here is the denial of
perfection. In addition, there is a narration from the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))that the tasmiyya is to say: "In the name of Allah, the Magnificent
and all praise be to Allah for the religion of Islam." In addition, if one says at the
beginning of wudu, "There is no god except Allah," or "Praise be to Allah," or "I bear
witness that there is no god except Allah," then one has fulfilled the sunna.*


odd ee a TL Sy clan! § SN,


" Ibn Majah, The Book of Purification and its Sunna ٤٤٩.
? Muslim ٢٥٢.

> Abu Dawud ١٠١.

* Al-Madhahib al-Arba'a, vol.١, ٦٢.


٥٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


٣ — It is sunna to use the siwak(the brushing of the teeth with the stick)at the
beginning of wudu, even if it is with the finger when the siwak is not available.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((Would it not be a
burden on my nation, ١ would have ordered them to use the siwak at every
prayer))."


٤ Vy UW Lanually


٤ — To rinse the mouth three times is sunna even if the three mouthfuls are from
a single handful of water. One is deemed as having fulfilled the sunna of gargling
thrice, even with these actions. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[When one performs ablution, he should rinse his mouth].'


ob FO GLEN,


٥ — To run water in the nostrils with three separate handfuls of water is sunna.
Meaning, one is to use three new handfuls of water when rinsing the nostrils.


eslall J GL y daeall gL,


٦ — During the rinsing of the mouth and nostrils, it is sunna for one to increase
the depth of rinsing provided he is not fasting; that is, one gargles further down
near the throat when rinsing the mouth and runs water further up the nostrils.


glint -po cle BS US AAD Le,


٧ — It is sunna to pass the fingers through the bottom of a large beard with water
on the palm of the hand. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))observed this when he made wudu(in that)he took a handful of water underneath
his throat and he ran his fingers between his beard. Thereafter, he said[This is
what my Lord has ordered mel. It is said that Abu Yusuf held this as sunna, while
Abu Hanifa held it as permissible."


qe! Jld y


٨ — It is sunna to interlace the fingers on the basis of the Prophet's order. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If you make wudu then
interlace the fingers of your hands and feet].* This is done by passing the fingers
of one hand through the fingers of the other. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[Whoever does not interlace his fingers in water, Allah will
interlace them in Hellfire on the Day of Judgement].°


Saal Etsy


" Muslim ٤٨٧.

? Abu Dawud ١٤٤.

٣ Al-Hidayah١٢.

* At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ٣٩
* Tabarani ٢٢/٦٤.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥١


٩ — It is sunna to wash the limbs three times. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[Performed the acts of ablution once and said, "This is the
obligatory requisite of ablution." He then performed each act of ablution twice
saying, "This is the ablution who God grants a double reward." He thereafter
performed each act thrice and said, "This is my wudu, the wudu of the Prophets
before me."]."


٥ ceokh Hl Slaels


١٠ — Wiping the entire head is sunna due to the report that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))[Performed wudu and wiped his entire head].'
Imam Shafi'i holds that the sunna is to do so thrice with water renewed each time.
Our argument is that Anas((God be pleased with him))performed each act of
ablution thrice, but performed the wiping of the head once. He then said, "This is
the ablution of the Messenger of God"((God bless him and give him peace)). This
is a sound tradition.'


ot Mele gy Og٥YI ey


١١ — To wipe the ears, even if it is with the water used for the head is a sunna
practice as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The ears are
from the head]. However, Shafi'i disagrees with using the same water for both
limbs.


AU


١٢ — To rub the limbs with water is sunna. This is known as dak, and other than
Malik and Imam Awza'i, no other jurist held it obligatory.


Yl


١٣ — Washing the limbs successively without pausing between them, such that in
normal weather the last part would not dry before one began the next.
aly

١٤ — The intention of wudu is sunna. Though Malik and Shafi'i said that it is
compulsory because it is an act of worship which is not valid without it, as in the
case of tayammum. Our argument is the words of Allah[O you who believe!
When you prepare for prayer wash your face.]and there is no mention of
intention. Abu Hanifa said if one does not intend, then the wudu is valid, but the
rewards are less. Another argument is: the reason it is obligatory in tayammum is
because the soil is not an original source where by one can attain purification. It is


"Ibn Majah ٤٢٠.

? Bukhari ١٨٥.

. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٠.
* Abu Dawud ١٣٤.


٥٢ BOOK !: PURIFICATION


therefore essential to make the intention to render the soil pure, whereas with
wudu, purification has been achieved through a purifying substance, namely
water. "


aS b SLs dil a٣ |S Silly


١٥ — The chronological order of ablution is sunna as Allah mentioned them in
His book, while Imam Malik and Imam Shafi'i held it as obligatory. This means
that to begin ablution with what Allah mentioned in the Quran is sunna[Wash
your faces, and your hands(and arms)up to the elbows; rub your heads(with
water)and wash your feet up to the ankles]. The reason in our view as to why it is
sunna and not obligatory is because of the letter waw' which is mentioned in the
verse. The Hanafi school held that this indicates union without restriction by
consensus of the experts in language. On the other hand, Imam Shafi'i held, that
it is the letter fa' which creates a binding command for what follows.'


wl Nl pies gel ٩٩٠٣ ld delat,


١٦/١٧/ — It is sunna to: i)begin with the right when washing the limbs, ii)to
commence the washing from the tips of the fingers and toes of the feet and iii)with respect to the head, to begin the wiping from the frontal part. A'ishah
reported that Allah's Messenger loved to start from the right hand side in
purification as he purified himself.' Additionally, Abu Hurairah reported that
Allah's Messenger said[As you perform ablution, begin it from your right hand
sides].*


eb Y <٥ I mes
١٨ — It is sunna to wipe the neck, not the throat.
does Vda Ol: fay


It has been said that the last four mentioned acts(namely point ١٥, ١٦, ١٧, and ١٨)are recommended, and not sunna.


" An example of how one may attain wudu without intending is by inadvertently falling in
a river or the like during which the parts required for wudu become wet.

? Al-Hidayah ١٤.

٧ Tbn Majah ٤٠١.

* Tbn Majah ٤٠٢.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥٣


٦ ~ Jl AI ٣ ao
The Etiquettes Of Wudu(Recommended Measures)Literally, the word adab means to put something in its correct place. In its juristic
sense, it is considered as that which the Prophet performed once or twice. This is
also called nafl, mustahab, mandub and tatawwu'. The one who undertakes its
performance is rewarded though is not blameworthy for its omission.


et he date pe gl lal
There are ١٤ practices that are recommended in wudu;
CB ٢ Ss ٣ ow ght


١/ To sit on an elevated place for the reason that one should avoid the used water
and allow it to flow away without splashing back onto one's clothes or body.


Ua JLenly


٢/ Facing the direction of prayer for it is superior regarding the acceptance of
supplication during the ablution.


one oun Yi ples


٣/ The third is not to seek assistance from others in performing wudu so one may
rise in worship alone without the help of others.


tl ers Alsi ees


٤/ To abstain from talking in a manner of the general speech of people which is
devoid of remembrance as this distracts a person from making supplication the
Prophet has taught us((God bless him and grant him peace)).


٥/ To unite the intention of the heart with the verbal utterance of the tongue.
ppl ele,


٦/ To make supplications which have been transmitted from the Prophet,
Companions and Tabi'in is recommended.


pas JS v٦ daly


٧/ To say, "In the Name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate" at the time of
washing or wiping each limb.


sil Cle Go pat Sal,


" Maraky al-Falah ٤٦.


٥٤ BOOK |: PURIFICATION


٨/ To insert the little finger within the opening of the ears. This is performed in
order to increase the area of wiping.


gelato Z,


٩/ To move around the wide loose ring to ensure optimum cleaning is among the
desirable practices of wudu.


١٠/ To gargle and draw water into the nostrils with the right hand and withdraw
the nasal mucus with the left hand.


pylall CaN I> JS poy


I١/ Performing wudu before the time of prayer has entered is from the etiquette
of wudu, though not for a person who is excused." The issue of a person deemed
excused is detailed in due course.


ody lgL OLY,


١٢/ To recite the two declarations of faith after the completion of wudu while
standing. The Prophet((Peace be upon him))said[If anyone of you performs
ablution and performs it well, and when he finishes ablution, he utters the words
'I bear witness that there is no god except Allah and I bear witness that
Muhammad is His servant and Messenger; all the eight doors of Paradise will be
opened for him, he may enter through any of them].'(BG «pb gl Judi oe oe eal
١٣/ To drink from the remaining water of wudu standing is a recommended
practice of wudu; meaning, one is to drink from the remaining water he
performed wudu from and do so standing facing the qibla or one may sit because


the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Drank standing from the
excess of wudu, the water of Zamzam].'


ce pba ope pled y Cull ce lend pg: Uy aly
١٤/ Upon this, it is recommended to say, "O Allah make me from among the repenters


and make me from those who are pure."[Allahuma ij'alni min at-tawwabin waj'alni minal
mutatahhirin}.


"A person deemed excused is one who suffers from a chronic ailment such as continuously
breaking wind and therefore unable to maintain wudu for the time needed to perform an
obligatory prayer. One is therefore excused and permitted to pray even while he/she suffers
from the condition during the prayer. Therefore, the observance of wudu prior to the prayer
time entering is not for such a person.

* Abu Dawud ١٦٩.

* Bukhari ١٦٣٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥٥


eps Moly So ٩ fad
That Which Is Disliked In Wudu


cs daw +? poo Sy
Six things are disliked in wudu
Ug GIy

١/ To waste water is disliked, due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))to Sa'ad when he passed by him whilst he was making wudu[What is this wastage, O Sa'ad?]in which he replied: Is there wastage in wudu?
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Yes, even if you were at
a flowing river]."


ad pois


٢/ It is disliked to use very little water to the extent that one uses hardly enough
that it nearly becomes like wiping. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[The best of matters is the middle course].'


wer Soy


٣/ To slap water on the face is disliked for the reason that the face has honour,
and it should be performed gently, as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said((Do not hit the face)).'


٤/ To speak words of general speech, namely, that which is devoid of the
remembrance of God, is disliked as it entails distraction from supplication.


pdt pb cp ops Gla VI


٥/ To seek assistance from others without a reason is disliked. Umar((Allah be
pleased with him))said: I saw the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))pouring water to make wudu, so I moved so that I could prepare that for him
when he said to me, "Stop, O Umar - for verily ١ do not need anyone to help me
with my prayers."*


de ele ates,


٦/ To wipe the head three times using new water each time is disliked, because
wiping is only performed once.


" Ibn Majah ٤٢٥.

٥ Reported by al-Baihaqi ٢٦١.

٣ Abdu-Razak ٩/٣٣٣.

* Related by Abu Yahya in his Musnad ١/٢٠٠.


٥٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


+ ٢ gl Lal G Lai
Categories Of Wudu
plLudl OU Le + ٢ sll
Wudu is divided into three types
Al shy OL wl Ly oy HSI Sto BLL ia)y MG CIS gh y SH Stall be oo ٥: Uy


The first type is that which is obligatory upon one in a state of minor impurity
who wishes to pray even if the prayer is a voluntary one, or is a funeral prayer, for
indeed it is still a prayer even though it is not a complete one. It is obligatory for
the prostration of recital and for one who wishes to touch the Quran, even if it is
only one verse that is written on a paper, dirham or wall as Allah said in the
Quran[None shall touch it except those who are clean]."


The second type is that which is wajib for the tawaf of the ka'bah as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The tawaf around the ka'bah is like
prayer except that you may speak, and whoever speaks should not speak unless it
is good].'

aghe ds glial yo are dard! yo ole be oo ytee SIU,


The third type is that which is recommended on different occasions, namely;
when one wishes to sleep in a state of purification, or when one awakens from
sleep or so one can continuously be in a state of wudu. Other occasions include, to
touch the books of Islamic law, not the books on the interpretation of the Quran.


troll Jeo pe sll


It is recommended for one in a state of wudu to refresh his wudu with the
intention of attaining rewards and closeness to God and provided that when one
makes wudu for the second time, it is performed in a different place. The reason
being is that performing wudu upon wudu from the same place is disliked if acts
of worship are not performed between them, for this is deemed as wastage.


dare y IS y Mf Sey


It is recommended after back biting, lying and after slander, which is to carry
tales spreading corruption upon the earth.


potaltily tbs JS,


" Al-Wagi'a, ٧٩.
٢ At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Purification ٩٦٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION $٧
t is recommended after every mistake including the i

vudu expiates small sins. The Prophet((God bless him a Sak
There is not a person who committed sin and then performed[wudu]and
hereafter observed prayer seeking Allah's forgiveness except that Allah forgives
١im], then the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))recited the ae
And those who, having done an act of indecency or wronged their own souls
-emember Allah and ask for forgiveness for their sins}."


Teall cle yagiy[t is recommended after laughing loudly outside of prayer. The reason this is the
case is because to laugh loudly in prayer nullifies the wudu and prayer; hence


when it is done outside of prayer, it portrays a resemblance and is therefore
desirable to make wudu.


alms Ley


It is recommended after washing a dead person or after carrying him. The


Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whoever washed a deceased
he should observe ghusl, and whoever carried him should perform wudu}.'


He cis;


It is recommended to make wudu for the time of every prayer whether one is in a
state of purification or not. Anas((God be pleased with him))reported that the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed wudu for every prayer
whether he was pure or not." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him sea)also said[For a man who performs ablution in a state of ablution. ten a
deeds will be recorded(in his favour)}.* ;


atl Joe ٥,


It is recommended prior to the major bath(ghusl). Aishah(Allah be pleased with
her))reported that[If the Prophet performed the major bath from junub, he began


by washing his hands, before placing his hands in the container. then he observed
wudu, like the wudu for prayer].° :


erst pty jl cc Onl,
It is recommended when a person in a state of mjor ritual impurity desires to


eat, repeat sexual intercourse or sleep. A'ishah(Allah be pleased with her))reported((If the Prophet was in a state of janaba and wanted to eat or sleep, he





" Al-Imran ١٣٥.

٢ Abu Dawud; The Book of Funerals ٣١٦١.
٣ At-Tirmidhi ٥٨[Maraky al-Falah ٥١].

' Abu Dawud ٦٢.

> Muslim ٣١٦.


٥٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


made wudu, the wudu he would perform for prayer))." The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[If anyone approached his spouse, and then
wanted to repeat sexual intercourse, then he should perform wudu between
them].'


aa
In a state of anger, it is recommended to make ablution. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said((Anger is from Satan and the Shayatin are


created from fire, and verily you extinguish fire with water, so if any of you
becomes angry, he should perform wudu)).'


oss


It is recommended when one wishes to recite Quran from memory; and as
discussed earlier if one intends to touch the Quran, it is compulsory to perform
ablution. .


alyyy Cudmy


It is recommended for the reading of hadith and when narrating it based on the
honour it has been given and what it represents.


ele alo
It is recommended for the studying of Sacred knowledge due to its status.
Lbs y ULL, lil,


It is recommended for the adhan and tgama of prayer as well as for a sermon,
whether it is a Friday sermon or a sermon on marital relations or other.


ply ale ail fro Us abs


When visiting the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))it is
recommended to observe wudu.


٣٣ Aly Laxall Crs ry br ds ٩٥


It is recommended when standing on Arafah, and for the running between the
Safa and Marwah in hajj because of the esteem they have been given.


١٩٥% pt JSIy


" Ahmad ٣/٢١, Muslim ٣٠٧.
? Ahmad in his Musnad ٣/٢١.
* Abu Dawud ٤٧٦٦.


BOOK ١: PURIFICATION ٥٩


After eating camel meat it is recommended to make ablution. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))was asked about wudu after eating the meat of
the camel, and he said[Make wudu from it]." Note: The Hanafi view on this
matter is such, so that one is free from the disagreement of the scholars, such as
the view of Imam Ahmad who held it as a requirement.


Al pal pao ١٣١[Sel GE ye oy Sly
It is recommended to make wudu after any act which is subject to disagreement,
so that one can be free from the differences of the scholars, such as the touching
of a female. Note: touching a female does not nullify wudu, whether she is a
believer or not, but in order to avoid the differences of the scholars, it is
recommended. In addition, it is preferred to observe wudu if a person touches his
private part with the palm of his hand even though this does not break wudu,


since Shafi'i, Malik and Ahmad said, "Whoever touches his private part must
perform wudu.""


spd gl ail
Nullifications Of Wudu
Labi te le we Sl aly
Twelve things nullify wudu, and they are;
ce ba Vs tt pe ee


١/ Anything that exits from the front and back passage nullifies wudu except the


air which comes out from the front passage(of a female)and this is the most
sound view.


٠٢ Ab)ne Cp FOV watt y
٢/ Giving birth without seeing blood nullifies ablution. Imam Abu Yusuf and
Imam Muhammad said: "This is not classified as nifas(postnatal bleeding)because in order for it to be deemed as such, there must be blood. However, she
must make ablution due to the wetness and dampness." Though Abu Hanifa said,


"As a precaution she is to perform the major bath." Note: it is rare for a woman to
give birth without the sight of blood, though if it does, the wudu breaks.


TI SUA pe op Wl ley

٣/ The flowing of an impurity such as blood or pus from anywhere else other than
the two passages nullifies wudu. Imam Shafi'i maintained that whatever comes
out of the body, from other than the two passages, does not nullify wudu. The


Hanafi basis is the report of the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)"Ablution is from all types of flowing blood."*





" At-Tirmidhi; the Book of Purification ٨١.
٢ Maraky al-Falah, ٥٢.
* AlAyni, vol, ١, ٢٦٢.


٦٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Te Je SV)pill ae Salas Ve gay pil Lo ١٣]By sl gle sl ele sl pla «J


٤/ Vomiting a mouthful of food and water, blood clots or bile nullifies wudu,
provided the vomit is a mouthful. And the definition of a mouthful is that the
mouth cannot be shut except with difficulty and this is the correct view and the
way of the ten who were promised Paradise and the best of the Tabi'in such as
Hassan Al-Basri and Ibn Sirin. It has been established that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))vomited and thereafter performed wudu."
Indeed, this was the way of the ten promised paradise.' Moreover, the Prophet,
"Perform wudu from seven things: from the leakage of urine, from all flowing
blood, vomit, from das'a(a spurt of vomit)which is a mouthful, from sleeping
while lying on one's side, the audible laughing in prayer and the emission of
blood."*

aoe AENN٣| ٦ UG ite ant y
٥/ If a person vomits a few times and the cause is the same for each time, then
these several occurrences are deemed as one occurrence, and if the addition of all
these occurrences of vomiting equate to a mouth full, then ablution is nullified
according to Imam Muhammad,' though according to Abu Yusuf, he maintained
that if the place where he vomited was the same, then his ablution is void,
otherwise it is not. As for the mucus which descends from the head, it is not an
annulling factor by agreement of the scholars since it is pure. And the fatwa is in
accordance with this.

ol sl gh Stj JI de Ue poy

٦/ If one's saliva is overshadowed by blood(from an injury in the mouth)or the
blood is even with the saliva, ablution is void. If one sees that his saliva is red or
yellow, then it is regarded as overshadowed. Though it has been said that a light
colour of red makes it even whereas a strong colour of red dominates it. In
addition, the blood which descends from the head invalidates wudu because it
flows even if it is minimal. This is agreed upon. Likewise, the runny blood which
rises from the internal area of the body is an invalidator of wudu and the majority
held this view.


IW cp Banal ab Sad ١ ٦ sis


" At-Tirmidhi ٨٧.

? Maraky al-Falah ٥٤.

* Az-Zayla"i fi Nasb ar-Rayya ١/٤٤ and Ibn Hajar fi ad-Darayya ١/٣٣.[Maraky al-Falah ٥٤].

' For example, if one vomits a small amount(not a mouthful)because of a stomach virus
and then shortly after vomits another time because of the same cause, in this case the
virus, then the two occurrences are regarded as one, and if the addition of both equate to a
mouthful according to a person's estimation, then wudu is void. If on the other hand this
person vomited a second time because of a different reason, such as coughing thereby
causing one to vomit, then it is regarded as a separate incident.


* Maraky al-Falah ٥٤


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦١


٧/ To sleep in such a way that one's buttocks are not firmly set on the ground,
renders the wudu void. This occurs when a person sleeps while he is in a sitting
posture, though his buttocks are not firmly fixed, resulting in the nullification of
wudu.


Maraky al-Falah states. According to the Hanafis, the sleep itself does not invalidate
wudu owing to the fact that it is not impurity; rather it is due to the sleeping
person not being able to remain free from that which breaks wudu. This is the
sound view concerning the issue contrary to Shafi'i and Hanbal. Likewise, if one
undertakes a light sleep in a manner that one hears those who speak around him,
then the wudu remains sound. Though if one does not hear, then wudu is void.!


Moreover, in the Hanafi school, wudu is rendered void by sleep in three cases: to
sleep on one's side, back or one of the hips. The reason wudu is void is because
one is not firmly set due to the relaxation of the muscles and joints. As for
sleeping in the sitting posture where the buttocks are firmed set on the ground,
then the wudu remains sound. Likewise, one's wudu remains sound despite
sleeping in a standing posture, bowing posture or a proper prostration pose(as
done in prayer), because in these postures, one is flexing or gripping his body(though if one's body collapses in any of these postures, the wudu is void). The proof that
sleep does not invalid wudu except while lying down is the saying of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)"Wudu is not imposed except on the one
who sleeps lying down; for if one lies down, his joints and muscles relax."? Abu
Hanifa compared this to the postures of lying down on the back or hips, because
the cause of deficiency is found and it is the relaxation of the joints which is
present in both positions.'


lal § bi ١ of, atsil JG Sb stads play
٨/ The elevation of one's buttocks from the floor while one is sleeping and before
one becomes aware, nullifies the wudu even if one does not fall over. And this is


the evident view in the Madhhab on the basis that as soon as the buttocks are
elevated in a state of unawareness, ablution is nullified.


prs erg elély
٩/١٠/ Losing consciousness(fainting)/ temporary insanity / and drunkenness all
nullify wudu.
Beall oye be cy Fl dead gly > prey £٩٥٥ Id Dee J Uae, IL <pigs
١١/ Ablution is void if a mature conscious person laughs loudly in a prayer that
includes bowing and prostration even if he intentionally laughs in order to leave


the prayer. The same applies even if done forgetfully. With respect to audible
laughing; it is that which is heard by those around the individual. Though Imam


" Maraky al-Falah ٥٥.
? Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi, Ahmad in his Musnad, and Tabarani.
* Kitab al-Figh 'Ala Madhahib al-Arba'a, Abdur-Rahman al-Jaziri vol.١, ٧٤-٧٥.


٦٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION





Shafi'i disagrees with the ruling on the basis that it is not something that comes
out in the form of filth and is therefore not deemed as minor impurity in the case
of the funeral prayer and the recital prostrations. The Hanafi School held that the
funeral prayer does not consist of bowing or prostration which means audible
laughing in it, renders the prayer void though not the wudu. This is however,
contrary to a complete prayer that includes bowing and prostration(in which case
the wudu and prayer is void)." Note: smiling in prayer does not affect wudu or
prayer.
fle ye nae SL oi my

١٢/ If a man rubs a vagina with his erect penis without a screen(or cover)which
prevents the warmth of the body, ablution is void. The implication here is
rubbing, not penetration because if it is penetration then he will have to
undertake the major bath if the head of his penis disappears in the vagina. And
Allah knows best. Likewise, if a man with his erect penis touches another man's
penis without a covering or a woman with her genitalia touches another woman's
genitalia with sexual excitement and without a covering, ablution is void.' Note:
such acts are offensive and forbidden in the Islam, though the position of the
jurist is to provide a legal answer for a scenario should it ever occur.


٦ yop yas Vd
That Which Does Not Nullify Wudu
+t gl ats VeLtli te
There are ten things that do not nullify wudu;
Ale oe Jer deo a y٤h


١/ The appearance of blood that does not flow from its injury onto another part of
the skin does not break wudu.


ana A)Slay GH SAM GS SIS ٠٠ OM nb ope pt b yin
٢/ If a piece of flesh or scab is separated from the body without the flowing of
blood from its place, then it does not break wudu. The flesh or skin is pure and its
separation does not require purification provided there is no oozing of blood. An
example is a 'Madina blood vessel' that is termed 'rashta' in Persian. It is attributed
to the Madina of the Prophet because it was very common to them. A rashta is like
a polyp or a piece of flesh that hangs off the skin; it is also identified as a pimple


or blister upon the skin. If it is separated from the body without the flowing of
blood, then the ablution remains sound.


ly cr poEPeIAS





" Maraky al-Falah ٥٥.
* Maraky al-Falah ٥٦.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٣


٣/ If a worm exits a wound, or exits from the ear or nose, it does not break wudu
on the basis that it is not deemed filthy due to its very minimal dampness.
However, if it exits through the anus, ablution is nullified. Hence, it is deemed as
something that breaks ablution when it exits from the two passages, though this
excludes all other locations.
Pes

٤/ Touching one's penis, anus or a woman's genitalia, does not nullify wudu. This
was the Madhhab of some of the great Companions such as Umar, Ali, Ibn
Mas'ud, Ibn Abbas and Zaid ibn Thabit as well as some of the great Tabi'in such
as al-Hasan al-Basri, Sa'id and Thawr((God be pleased with them all)). The basis
for this view is the hadith that a man came to the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))and said, "O Messenger of Allah. What do you say about a man
who touches his genitals in prayer?" Thereupon the Prophet said to him, "Is it not
a body part from you."' And Imam Tirmidhi said about the above hadith that it is
the best hadith on the subject and the most sound. However, touching one's
genitals requires the washing of the hands as the Prophet said, "Whoever touches
his genitals is to observe wudu." Scholars said that the term wudu in this hadith
is meant in its linguistic sense, which is to wash the hands.


al yal aay
٥/ Touching a woman does not nullify wudu. A'ishah((Allah be pleased with her))reported[The Prophet would fondle(and kiss)some of his wives, and then would
pray without making wudul."


pi eV Ss
٦/ Vomiting less than a mouthful is not an annulling factor.
IS by parle is


٧/ Vomiting phlegm(saliva)does not nullify wudu even if it is more than a
mouthful because it has not mixed with any filth, and saliva is pure.


Stade Sy)Jarrl pili ples
٨/ To sway while sleeping where there is a possibility of falling does not break
wudu. Meaning, if one is sitting upright with the buttocks on the ground, then the
swaying does not affect the wudu because the buttocks are firmly placed on the
ground. The Companions of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would wait for the 'isha prayer until their heads drifted(sunk), then they prayed
and did not perform wudu).°


" At-Tirmidhi[Maraky al-Falah ٥٧].

* Musnad Ahmad ٤/٢٢, Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi | Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٧٨.
+ Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٧٨.

* AtTirmidhi and an-Nasai ١٦٥.

* Abu Dawud ٢٠٠


٦٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Leto paUlall fo date Lil Jog Mlares Sy Kare er yi


٩/ Sleeping in a firm manner is not an annulling factor, even if one is leaning on a
support, where he will fall over if it is removed; and this is the soundest view in
the school of Abu Hanifa with respect to this ruling and the ruling in point eight.
The description of this posture is to sleep seated upright while the buttocks are
firmly positioned on the ground.


Bll ily LI age fe tale LST, gly frase gis


١٠/ Sleeping in prayer(does not break ablution)even if one sleeps during bowing and
prostration provided the person maintains his posture according to the sunna.
However, if one's posture is no longer according to the sunna, such as one's arm
collapsing upon the rib area and ground, the wudu is invalid. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[Ablution is not compulsory on one who
sleeps sitting or standing or prostrating until he falls on his side]." Therefore, if
one falls on his side, relaxation of his joints has occurred thus rendering the wudu
void. The same rule applies outside of prayer; that is, wudu remains sound if one
falls asleep in these postures.'


SLY Coy bed fuai


That Which Obligates The Major Bath(Ghusl)tlatl dae yo tely Jail ٢ pay
The major bath is compulsory if one of the following occurs:
CU ae et bythe de oe adil IS]atl pale S! dll cy >


١- The discharge of sperm to the surface of the body obligates the major bath
provided it separates from its location due to sexual arousal, not sexual
intercourse. This can occur due to a sexual dream or fantasizing, and applies to
both male and female. If however, one is struck in the back and consequently
discharges sperm, he is not required to perform the major bath because it was not
due to sexual arousal. According to Shafi'i, the emergence of seminal fluid, in
whatever way this occurs, leads to the obligation of bathing due to the saying of
the Prophet(Water is from water]; that is, bathing is due to the discharge of
semen.' The Hanafi proof is that purification is invoked by sexual impurity{janaba| and sexual impurity is the ejaculation of semen through sexual desire.
The hadith mentioned by the Prophet that "Water is from water," is interpreted to
mean ejaculation by way of sexual desire.


" At-Tirmidhi and al-Bayhaqi.
* Maraky al-Falah ٥٨.
* Al-Hidaya ٢١.


ea en BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٥


Maraky al-Falah states. the Hanafi school maintains that it is conditional for sexual
desire to be present when the seminal fluid separates from its location, though it is
not conditional that the sexual desire persist until the fluid exits the body,
contrary to Abu Yusuf(who maintained it is conditional for the desire to be present when
the seminal fluid exits the body). Therefore, according to Abu Hanifa anc
Muhammad, this means that if one holds or squeezes his penis until the a
desire subsides and fades away, and then some time after this — seminal fluid
comes out, then one is required to undertake the major bath, though Abu Yusuf
says that he is not required to do so; and the legal ruling[fatwa]is in accordance
with Abu Yusuf's view.!


Equally, if one has a bath after which the rest of the seminal fluid exits before one
has urinated, slept or walked many steps, then one is required to perform the
major bath again according to Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, contrary to ne
Yusuf(zwho maintains that it must exit the body with sexual desire present at such time). If
however, the seminal fluid exits after urinating and after one's penis comes ٩ bak
or after sleeping or walking many steps, then the bath is not required again, an
issue they agreed upon."

el ee tel dpe phe cy oi eee Sly
٢- If the head of the penis disappears in one of the passages of a living oe
being(vagina or anus); the major bath becomes compulsory on both persons. Ant
the size of the head is from the section that was removed in circumcision(i.e. it is
the head of a living man's penis). The Prophet((God bless him and give =
peace))said[When the private parts[of the male and female]cohabit with eac
other and the penis disappears in the vagina, bathing becomes obligatory(for
both the male and female)].* The Prophet also said[When the private parts mee
and the penis disappears, bathing becomes obligatory irrespective of discharge].


dace glee eb y Hes
٣- The discharge of sperm due to intercourse with a dead person or animal


obligates the major bath. Note: if no sperm is discharged, one is not required to
observe the major bath because the desire was one sided.


esl fs! ae ٠٥٣ Ke d lle gl tu Gd eb ٢٩٧٩٩
٤ - If a person after waking up finds the presence of thin liquid(and yea
remember a dream); the major bath is obligatory provided his penis was not erec


before sleeping. If, on the other hand, the penis was erect prior to sleeping, it is in
all likelihood madhi, and madhi does not require the major bath.


" Maraky al-Falah ٥٩-٦٠. ek

* Maraky al-Falah ٥٩-٦٠ | Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٩٧ - Third Edition, Dar al-Kutub al"Ilmiyya.

*Tbn Majah ٦١١.

' Al-Ikhtiyar ٢٠ / Al-Bayhagqi in Sunan al-Kubra ١/١٤١. ٢٣s,

, . i cur, they rarely do and it is
Note: although such unlawful and offensive acts may never occur, they y

the duty of a jurist to provide a solution.


٦٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Leb)Sur cp Bll]day Lee a flog


٥- If a person finds the presence of wetness after regaining consciousness or after
recovering from intoxication and believes it to be sperm, then he is required to
undertake the major bath.


ules ٤>u٩


٦-٧- When a female's menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding ends, it is
compulsory for her to perform the major bath.


ee SpE fb gS! sLeViclam ٥S,


And even if the aforementioned things(such as menses or seminal discharge)occurs prior to becoming a Muslim, one must still perform the major bath after
embracing Islam and this is the correct view. The reason being is that the trait of
major impurity[janaba]remains even after becoming Muslim, and it is not
possible to meet the conditions of prayer or the funeral prayer, the prostration of
recitation or the touching of Quran unless the major bath is performed. Hence, it
is obligatory to perform it given that one is Muslim and required to be pure when
he wants to pray or perform other acts of worship that require purity, as Allah
mentioned in the verse of wudu. If however, one becomes Muslim, though was
not in a state of major impurity when he was an unbeliever, then the major bath is
recommended upon becoming Muslim."


GUS oN as ٦ piss
It is a communal obligation[fard kifaya]to bath a deceased Muslim. If however no
one performs this task, then the sin falls upon the entire community.
That Which Does Not Obligate The Major Bath
Lge pecs Volt a ne
There are ten things a person is not required to perform the major bath from:
$٢٣٣ Ste


١- Madhi(non-sperm male discharge also known as Cowper"s fluid - which is the
name of the gland from which the fluid originates; and known in general terms as
pre-cum). It is a white, thin, sticky fluid that is released from a man's penis when
he is aroused. The fluid is released long before man reaches an orgasm. Such
arousal is due to passionate or romantic play or kissing. Moreover, the fluid that
exits from a female due to amorous play is termed kadhi.'


" Maraky al-Falah ٦١ / Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim al-Silkini ١٠٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ٦٠, ft-٤.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٧


٢- Wadi(non-sperm male discharge)is describes as a white cloudy fluid that is
thick and warm and has no smell. It is released generally after urinating and
occasionally before.


JL pAl,


٣- The major bath is not compulsory, if one has a sexual dream but finds no
wetness upon awaking. And the females are like the males due to the words of the
Prophet who was asked: "Does a woman need to perform ghusl if she dreams?"
There upon the Prophet said "Yes, if she dreams and sees the fluid."!


Cw Glade ٠٣.٤٥٥ nF op OV ٥s
٤- Giving birth without visible blood does not obligate the major bath, since it is
not regarded as post natal bleeding[nifas]. Abu Hanifa maintained that as a


precaution she should perform ghusl on the basis that giving birth cannot be free
from a small amount of noticeable blood.


BAW! > p> ٥ pe SL % Se OL)٥- If a man inserts his penis in a woman's vagina, but there is a cloth(or clothes)that prevent the feeling of sexual pleasure, the major bath is not compulsory. It is
however, recommended to undertake the major bath as a precautionary measure


a> y


٦- Administrating medicine in the anus(such as a suppository)does not require
the bath.


cahedlaol jopey enol UeaLy


٧- Inserting a finger or something like it into the vagina or anus does not require
the major bath, and this is the opted view on the matter given the deficiency of
sexual desire.


Spl ne op dey sling eby,y


٨ / ٩- Having sexual intercourse with an animal or a deceased women without
discharging semen, does not obligate the major bath.


Jp ne PH LEIKI FA Kabel,


١٠- If a male penetrates a virgin, though he does not break her hymen and does
not discharge semen, the major bath is not compulsory. Note: we said earlier that
if the head of the penis penetrates a woman, that it obligates the major bath, but
in this case, the fact that her virginity remained intact confirms that the
circumcisable parts did not meet in a manner that would require the major bath
and that her hymen prevented the meeting of the private parts.'





" Bukhari ٢٨٢.
٢ Maraky al-Falah ٦٢.


٦٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION





Saat atl oly J
That Which Is Compulsory To Wash
et pte dol Lt i ٢ te
It is compulsory to wash eleven things during the major bath;


Bye Oddly EV y pill Jae


Washing the mouth, nostrils and the entire body once, is obligatory in the major
bath because Allah said in the Quran[If you are in a state of ceremonial impurity,
bath your whole body]." This is a clear command requiring the washing of the
entire body which includes the nose and mouth, though not the inner part of the
eyes. Imam Shafi'i on the other hand disagreed with respect to the mouth and
nostrils in the major bath saying that these are its sunan due to the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[Ten things are part of
fitra, and he mentioned from among them the gargling and the rinsing of the
nostrils].' Additionally, the reason the gargling and rinsing the nostrils are not
obligatory in wudu, but are in the major bath is because in the verse concerning
wudu, we are ordered to wash the face which excludes the nostrils and mouth.


a J re Y ads eles
It is obligatory to wash the inner area of the foreskin(that is usually removed


when circumcised)provided it can be opened or unwrapped without difficulty. If
there is difficulty, the requirement is lifted.


pre pF ny ٨ oy
To wash the inner part of the navel is obligatory. Likewise, to wash an opening(such as a hole or slot)in the body that has not sealed is obligatory. One should be
gentle and not exert hardship upon himself.


Lalas fo ٣ at op pyinall Jota


It is obligatory for a man to undo his braids and wash the inside. And he is to do
this every time he undertakes a major bath. And even if the water reaches the root
of his hair while it is tied, it is not valid; he must undo his braids and allow water
to reach the roots. This is because a man does not receive a dispensation based on
beautification, although the woman does.'


J geod Soll os pe Oa AN at yey yiaall Y


a

" Al-Maida ٦.

٢

; Recorded by all the sound compilations except Bukhari.[Al-Hidayah ١٩}.
Maraky al-Falah ٦٣.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٩


However, a female is not required to open her braids — provided the water
reaches the roots as is agreed upon, due to the hadith[Umm Salama who asked
the Prophet, "Apostle of Allah, ١ am a woman who keeps her hair closely plated.
Should I undo it when I wash after sexual relations?" He replied, "It is enough for
you to throw three handfuls over it, then pour water all over your body and you
will be purified."" One of the reasons for this as experts have explained is due to
hardship in undoing and redoing the hair that consumes a very long time.


CHEN ally bly SL yy Gas


It is obligatory to wash the skin underneath the beard, moustache, eyebrows, as
well as the immediate inner part of the outer lips of the vagina, not the internal
area.


Sant spe Ole
The Sunan Of The Major Bath
Let oe St SLY ope
Twelve things are sunna in the major bath and they are;
Q)ly SL ela!


It is sunna to start by uttering, "In the name of God, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate[tasmiyya]," and to make one's intention. Note: just as a person is
rewarded for having an intention in wudu, the same applies to bathing. With
respect to the fasmiyya, the Prophet said, "Every important matter that is not
commenced with the name of God, is devoid of divine blessing,"? and the asmiyya
should coincide with the intention, so that the éasmiyya is on the tongue and the
intention is in the heart.


cna HM SI cpl pr(Ce Ob R))y


One is to commence the actions with the washing of the hands to the wrists.
Therefore, the tasmiyya and intention are to be observed with the washing of the
wrists. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported that((If the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))performed the major bath from janaba, he began
with washing his hands)).*


asl ab GIS Jibs jéy


It is sunna to wash away any impurity if it is isolated on the body. The sunna is to
wash it off before it dries so that one feels content that it has been removed.


" Abu Dawud ٢٥١.
? Ibn Majah ١٨٩٤.
٣ Muslim ٣١٦.


٧٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ap Sent s
To wash the sexual organs is sunna even if there is no noticeable impurity; this is
so that one feels content that water has reached the section of the body that
connects with the private part when one is standing and disconnects when one is
seated.


AAD pees fentll Che Tal ٤٥ yd ٥ Le go ٠


It is sunna to perform ablution, such as the ablution one makes for prayer,
washing the parts of ablution three times including the wiping of the head. Ibn
Abbas((Allah be pleased with him))reported on the authority of Maimuna, his
mothers sister, that she said[I placed water near the Messenger of Allah so that
he could take a bath from sexual intercourse, in which he washed his hands twice
or three times and then put his hand in the basin and poured water over his
private parts and washed them with his left hand. He then struck his hand against
the earth and rubbed it and then performed wudu upon which he washed his
whole body after which he moved aside from that place and washed his feet]."


Wd eat Je J de OW Ole I Le op oS),


One is to delay the washing of his feet if he is bathing in a place where the water
gathers and rises, for this is what the Prophet did((God bless him and grant him
peace)).

inal)JaSI ٨٤ ١٨٠ y Sa gh Le gh og Hal call ٨ punt gly UU ada gle cLall arty ٥
After this, it is sunna to pour water on the entire body three times, or one may
submerge himself in running water or anything else of similar legal status such as


a large quantity of water. If one remains in such water for a short duration, then
he has fulfilled the sunna.


pals pa eSu ade faery eed y ell ne destiny


One is to begin the process of washing by pouring water over the head, followed
by the right shoulder, then the left shoulder.


abe MN yey etn Wivs


It is sunna to rub the body with the water[da/k]and to wash successively without
pausing between the actions.


" Maraky al-Falah ٦٥.
? Muslim ٣١٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION
slay Soy JLEY lal
The Etiquettes And Disliked Actions Of Ghusl
yl AtS eo NE OK OV dal Je V sl Y]o pS OT JLEYI ist,


The etiquettes of the major bath are the same as that of wudu. The exception ;
that in the major bath, one is not to face the qibla because one is nak mi ft is
always. It is recommended that a person undertake the major bath ost
where no one can see him. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him pe

said[God is Ever Living and Ever Concealed from the eyes of the people Lari
likes those who acquire the qualities of modesty and concealment: = wh e
anyone of you wants to bath, let him observe secrecy]." Maraky al-Falah expl —
that when a man is bathing alongside other men and does not find the ace ains
observe secrecy, then he is to choose a place that is the least exposed ete to
applies to a woman who bathes alongside other women. The sin is ae :
onlooker if another person has uncovered his private part to bath. :


in a place


spo ae Stabe ss


And that which is disliked in ablution is disliked in the major bath with th
exception that it is disliked to speak, even if it is supplication, because the : e
parts are exposed. Private


dy gell"y ٦٤٥ god SLE ٥ fuai
When Ghusl Is Sunna And Recommended
& yb JLEY!
Occasions When Ghusl Is Sunna
eLtl da ULE Y oe





It is sunna to perform the major bath for four occasions,
dant BL
١- Friday prayer because it is the greatest of days. The Prophet((God b
and grant him peace))said[The greatest of days is Friday].? Por eats
crtsll ie y


٢- The Eid prayers. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
perform the major bath on the day of Fitr, Adha and Arafah.' ee would


" Abu Dawud.
٢ Ahmad ٣٣/٤٣٠.
* Tbn Majah ١٣١٦.


٧٢ BOOK |: PURIFICATION


Laws
٣- It is sunna for the ihram, which is the state of sanctification that one enters for
hajj and umrah as the Prophet performed((God bless him and give him peace))."
ly Nan de ٣ cE,


٤- It is sunna for the one performing hajj to bath af Arafah after the sun passes the
meridian(i.e. when the dhuhr time enters). This is specific for the one performing
hajj, not others.


yall SLZY!
The Occasions When It Is Recommended
bb tote GUL Oey
It is recommended to perform the major bath on sixteen occasions;
Lalb Lolo
١- The major bath is recommended for a person accepting Islam while free from
major ritual impurity[janaba], such as menstrual periods and postnatal bleeding.


The reason the major bath is recommended in this case is to ensure they are free
of any traces of that which may have been previously."


othabels


٢- It is recommended for one who matures by age; and according to the adopted
view in the Hanafi Madhhab, the maximum age is fifteen years for both sexes.
Therefore, one who has not yet experienced a nocturnal dream or a girl who has
not yet received a menstrual period is regarded mature at the age of fifteen. See
the previous chapter: Conditions That Obligate Wudu.


Ogee Bul oly
٣- It is recommended for a person who recovers from insanity and fainting.


٤- It is recommended after hijamah, commonly termed cupping. The basis is the
Prophets hadith on the matter((God bless him and give him peace)). Note:
hijamah is when tiny cuts are made to the skin after which blood flows.


oe es


" AcTirmidhi, the Book of Hajj ٨٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٦٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٣


٥- After washing a dead body. Note: The scholars disagreed on this point and
point four, but in order to remove oneself from the differences of the scholars, one
is recommended to perform ghusl in these circumstances. The Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))would perform the major bath from four things: janaba(sexual impurity), the Friday prayer, Aijamah(cupping)and from washing a
deceased. "


iol» AL ٥


٦- On the night of Bara-ah(Immunity). This night occurs in the middle of the
month of Sha'ban.


Lal ١٥]jaa als,


٧- It is recommended on the night of Qadr(Power)if one witnesses it or realises it
through the knowledge transmitted. From its signs are that it is bright, neither hot
or cold and at the break of dawn, the sun rises without rays. It occurs on an odd
day in the last ten days of Ramadan from the ٢١* to the ٢٩". This being the case,
it is desirable to spend the last ten nights of Ramadan in worship as the Prophet
did until he passed((God bless him and grant him peace)).


peg ae ail oo pil Ue tte J ely


٨- Upon entering the Madina of the Holy Prophet, it is recommended to bath due
to the high status it has been given, and due to arriving in the Prophet"s presence((God bless him and grant him peace)).


posle pls dds p٣٨ ys


٩- It is recommended for the standing in Muzdalifah at dawn time on the day of
Sacrifice(which is the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah)١٠- When entering Makkah for Tawaf azZtyarah(a pillar of hajj), it is
recommended to perform the major bath. This also applies for tawaf in general,
for the reason that a person should perform the tawaf with complete purity.'(lege ee dae la atl Gb pect y pretI)Ab ped Sua y


١١/١٢- For the prayer of a solar and lunar eclipse, it is a desirable and
recommended practice.


olanaul y


١٣- When seeking rain. This is essentially seeking forgiveness from Allah, and the
prayer or request is to be performed in utmost purity.


" Abu Dawud ٣٤٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٦٩.


١٤ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION





Beh py ٩ Lal y ٦٥٣(ye eal)١٤/١٥/١٦- It is recommended for the prayer arising from fear, overwhelming
darkness in the day or due to the presence of strong wind, whether it occurs at
night or in the day because Allah has ruined nations such as the nation of Ad with
destructive wind. It is also recommended when one has repented from his sins
and when returning from travel. It is also recommended to perform the major
bath when one has been struck with filth[najasa]and its location or spot is hidden,
in which case one it is recommended to wash his entire body and clothes as a
precaution. !


٢,
Oo Me ©,


posit
Tayammum


Lexically, tayammum means "purpose and intention." According to the scholars of
jurisprudence, tayammum is the wiping of the face and hands on soil which is pure.
Tayammum is something specifically for Islam that was not introduced in any
Previous laws before it. The proof for its legality is Allah's saying[And if you find
no water, then take for yourselves clean sand or earth and rub therewith your faces and hands.
Allah does not wish to place you in difficulty? This proof indicates the ease of the
religion; for previous to this in the earlier religions prior to Islam, one's
responsibility entailed many instances of hardship that could not be tolerated
except one whose intent was resolved in achieving its target. However, with the
advent of Islam came teachings that would not disconnect the servant from his
and leave in him disconnected from the Lord of mankind. Allah says[On no soul
does God place a burden greater than it can bear].° Elsewhere, He says[Our Lord!
Lay not on us a burden greater than we have the strength to bear].*


Indeed, the act of prayer, touching the Quran, tawaf and similar examples are
acts of worship that cannot be valid without wudu. However, the Sacred Law
allowed tayammum as a substitute for water during its absence or when one is
unable to use the water. This was done so that the servant would not be barred
from undertaking in the acts of worship or receiving its benefit and reward.'





Maraky al-Falah ٦٩.
Al-Maida ٧.
: Quran ٢:٢٨٦.
Quran ٢:٢٨٦. |Nur al-Idah ٤٤.
Al-Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٤.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٧٥


anv b ٣ rf
Conditions That Validate Tayammum


ES by ha pacll aay
There are eight conditions that one must fulfil;
ay pence Le fe ok pb Ae Ugh yy frill fo dill aie dtm y QIN: Uy

١- The first condition that validates tayammum is the intention; and its reality is
to have a firm resolve in the heart upon the action. The time for the intention is
when one places his hands upon the substance he intends to make tayammum
with. Note: the reason the intention is conditional in tayammum as opposed to
wudu is because the essence of the soil is physically unclean and is not deemed a
purifier for other things except it times of necessity. Therefore, if one wipes his
face with sand for example, he will not distinguish whether it is unclean or
purifying except by his intention. In other words, the soil does not act as a purifier
except with an intention. It is therefore conditional for the performance of
tayammum. In relation to wudu, it is valid without an intention because the
essence of the water is pure; and is purifying for other things. It was created as a
purifier, though this is not the case with soil." Note: the stipulation of an intention
is agreed upon according to all four jurists except Zufar the student of Abu
Hanifa. Zufar held that it is not obligatory because it is a substitute for wudu and
should not contradict its attributes.


Ar le balls jerodlls pA YI: BW aI de by ٥
- There are three conditions that validate the intention:
a)that one be Muslim. Tayammum is not applicable to non-believers.


b)that one possess the ability to differentiate and discriminate so that he
comprehends what he says. This condition entails one's sanity.


c)that one have knowledge of what he intends.
elo sole Da Sd bits


To validate one's intention of tayammum for ritual prayer, it is
conditional to satisfy one of three things,


٥ tga ٤٥ |


I)that one intends purification from his unclean state. This means that to intend
purification alone suffices for prayer, since purity is legally the key to prayer and
it is a condition that validates prayer. And even if one is in a state of janaba(major ritual impurity), intending purification alone suffices.


" Maraky al-Falah ٧١ | Nur al-Idah ٤٤.


١٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Ball Low! I


II)that one intend(the tayammum)to make prayer permissible for himself.
Meaning, if a person intends tayammum to make prayer lawful, it is a valid
intention for prayer because its permissibility lifts the status of impurity.


٨ sleb Os ena Vio pads dole i Jl


III)that one intend(the tayammum to perform)a specific act of worship, an act
which requires purity. For example, the recital prostration requires one to be in a
state of purity in order to perform it; this means that if a person intends
tayammum so he can carry out the prostration of recital, then this is a valid intent
for prayer because purity is achieved by intending that act. Another example is
that of a person who says, "/ intend tayammum for the prayer of janaza" and it is
known that the prayer of janaza is an act that one must be pure for. Therefore, by
intending the prayer of janaza in one's tayammum, one may also offer prayer with
this intent. Thus, if a person intends in their tayammum a specific act which
requires purity, then one is also permitted to pray with that intention.


Lee So dy OM ool wally ٣]ad els ٩٥١]٤ ea


A person cannot pray if he only intends tayammum. Purity must be factored in the
intention in some form, as shown in the above valid intentions for prayer. And
neither can a person pray if he intends the recitation of Quran, yet he is not in a
state of major impurity(janaba). Meaning, this person is in a state of minor
impurity and intends tayammum for the recitation of Quran, not to touch it. In
his case he is already permitted to recite the Quran. Another reason is that mere
recitation of Quran in his case does not place one in legal purity.


Note: if one is in a state of sexual impurity[janaba]and intends tayammum for the
recitation of Quran, then it is a valid intention since recitation is part of prayer(and one of its pillars). Though if one intends tayammum to touch the Quran, or
enter a mosque, then he cannot offer prayer with either of these intentions
because they are not from the pillars of prayer. Likewise, intending tayammum to
visit a cemetery or to offer the adhan and iqama are not valid according to the
majority of Hanafi scholars. Moreover, Abu Yusuf held that if one intends
tayammum for the purpose of entering Islam, it serves as a valid intent for prayer
given that it is the peak of attaining nearness to God. However, Abu Hanifa and
Muhammad maintain that it is not valid and this is the soundest view. Also, if one
intends tayammum for the prostration of gratitude[sajda ash-Shukr|, there are
varying views on the issue.


" Maraky al-Falah ٧٢.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٧


For the purpose of clarity, the Hanafis stipulate three conditions in order for the

intention of tayammum for prayer to be valid. One must intend one of three

things: the first is to intend purification from one's impure state. In this

stipulation, one does not have to specify his condition, whether it be major or

minor impurity, for intending purification alone is sufficient. The second is to

intend prayer to be lawful for oneself or to lift one's impurity. The third is to
intend a specific act of worship that requires purification(an act that cannot be
valid unless one is pure)such as prayer, the prostration of recitation or the funeral
prayer. If one merely intends tayammum without consideration of one of the
above, then prayer is not valid with such an intention. Furthermore, Imam Shafi'i
held that one is required to intend tayammum to perform the obligation and that
without an intention offering the obligation, it is not valid. According to this view,
if one intends in his tayammum, a non-obligatory prayer or an optional prayer, it
does not validate the obligatory one. If one intends the obligatory prayer, then it
serves as a valid intention for the optional one. However, in performing
tayammum for an obligatory prayer, one must intend its being obligatory; though
not necd specify whether, for example, it is the noon prayer of the mid-afternoon
prayer.


Summary Diagram


Intention is conditional
for tayammum and _ is
required at the time one
strikes the earth.


However, in order for this intent
to be valid, one must be Muslim,
sane and have knowledge about
what he intends.


With respect to the intention for
ritual prayer, one must intend
one of three things in order for
his tayammum to be correct for
prayer and they are: a)the
intention of purification, b)the
intent to make prayer permissible
for oneself and c)to intend an act
of worship that originally requires
purity, in which case - this will be
sufficient for prayer.





: AlFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٦ | Reliance of the Traveller ٩٠.


٧٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


PANNE gly cle ٣٦ Hye das pec ceed pial: GU


٢- The second condition that permits tayammum is: one must have a valid reason
such as being separated from water the distance of a mile,' even though one is in
the city. If one is at a distance that is less than a mile, he must go for water. This
stipulation holds that there be a valid reason such as the absence of water.
However, this absence is split into two types; the first is the real absence and the
second type is the legal absence. The real absence is defined as the actual water not
being available or found by the impure person, due to being separated from it the
distance of a mile. According to the Hanafis, one is to seek water if it is near-by or
there are people present who may be asked or one has a predominant view it is
present in a locality based on evidence such as birds or a fruit tree. If this is not
the case, one is not required to seek it. What is considered in this case is one's
predominant belief. The legal absence is defined as follows; the water is available,
though one has no ability to use it because he may contract an illness by using the
water or that one's illness will become aggravated or delayed. Another reason is
fear from a predator or another human or fear for one's possessions or trusts. In
addition is the absence of an instrument by which to extract water from a well or
another source; or fear of thirst or death upon oneself, companions or beast and
so forth.'


Bt GY cre cll y tae y ye Gy ٢ Al sf i ce GE oy op Spars
ely Jy te glajke Meo Gyorgy Saad,


Other reasons include; contracting an illness fearing that it will aggravate one's
condition or delay the recovery time, or cause fever and diarrhea; or it is so cold
that one fears harm to life or limb or that he will become seriously ill from the use
of the water, or one fears an enemy which he may encounter in the search of
water. A person may fear for himself, goods, or trusts that he has in his
possession.


Likewise, the fear of thirst or needing the water to make dough, for baking bread
is a valid reason. This may be due to a necessity of not having food, in which case
one may use the water for the dough and perform tayammum, though one cannot
use this water for soup because there is no necessity for it. And the absence of an





" Being separated from water means to be separated from a quantity of water that is sufficient
for wudu; and in relation to the distance of a mile, Maraky al-Falah ٧٢ states that one mile
equates to ٤٠٠٠ arm lengths[dhira], which is equivalent to ١٨٦٦ metres. Other Hanafi sources
maintain that it is equivalent to the distance of ١٨٤٨ metres[Al Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-
Salkini ١١٧], while the international established measure nowadays is ١٨٥٢ metres. However, it
is in all likelihood that this mile is in reference to a nautical mile which is a unit of length,
because the normal(statute)mile equates to ١٦٠٩ metres and the Hanafi sources have not
mentioned this figure. A nautical mile was developed from the geographical mile. It
corresponds approximately to one minute of latitude along any meridian. It is a non-SI unit
especially used by navigators in the shipping and aviation sector.

* Al-Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٧-١١٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٩


instrument to extract water such as a rope or bucket is deemed a valid reason for
making tayammum. Additionally, if one fears he will miss the Funeral or Eid
prayer, then he is to make tayammum. And even if one begins the(Funeral or Eid
prayer)with the imam and then inadvertently breaks wudu, he is permitted to
renew tayammum and complete the same prayer. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased
with him))reported[If the funeral prayer came suddenly and you feared you
would miss it, pray it with tayammum].' The reason tayammum is permitted for
these prayers based on the fear of missing them is because if they are missed, they
cannot be made up later.


C٥ gly Seadlicryd aye plas ols
It is not a valid reason if one fears he will miss the Friday prayer or the time of an


obligatory prayer because the Friday prayer has a substitute, namely the dhuAr
prayer and the obligatory prayer can be made up as gada.

ay aay GLY fe Sy pdt LAS ٢ NI ae ope pals eect OS OF: QIU
٣- The third condition requires that it be from a pure earth substance, such as
soil, stone and sand as well as gypsum, limestone, kohl, clay and arsenic
according to the Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, while Abu Yusuf maintained that
it is not permitted except with earth and sand. A person cannot perform
tayammum with wood, silver or gold as well as metal. Vital note: everything that
turns to ashes upon burning and everything that is made in fire cannot be used
for tayammum and anything else is permitted." Al-Shafi'i held that it is only
permissible with earth in which things can grow, and this has also been narrated
from Abu Yusuf due to the words of the exalted[Then take for yourselves clean


earth and perform tayammum with itl,' that is, soil used for sowing which is the
view held by Ibn Abbas.


ceth rll ole: wl

٤- The fourth stipulation is to completely wipe the parts required, which is the
face and the hands up to the elbows. One must therefore remove his ring,
interlace or rub between his fingers and wipe the entire skin of his face including
the hair according to the correct view. Another view holds that the majority of the
face is sufficient as well as the hands.' The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Tayammum is two strikes, a strike for the face and a strike for the
arms to his elbows].° This is also what the Prophet observed, because he was
asked about the method of wiping;[So he struck the ground with his palms, then
raised them to his face, after which he struck the ground again and then wiped his
arms, the inner part and outer part until he touched his elbows with his hands].°


" Tbn Ady Al-Kamil ٧/١٨٢.

? Maraky al-Falah ٧٥.

* Quran ٤:٤٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٧٥.

° Hakim Al-Mustadrak ١/٢٨٧.

® Ad-Darqutani in his Sunan vol.١, ١٧٩.


٨٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ae ged > IS hy ٥٩ Ves ee gl cm La sk sft ere nes OF:
٥- The fifth condition requires one to wipe with the entire hand or the majority of
it. It is not valid if a person wipes with only two fingers even if he does so


repeatedly until the required area is covered. However, in wudu a person may
wipe his head with two fingers until he covers the required area, and this suffices.


١ label Cus pall plas ¢ ging daly Ke dy CuSI ple cary pd ٠٩S, aT s aL
pac ٤٢> Aunt lo}ody


٦- The sixth condition is that it must be with two strikes with the inside of the
palms over the soil, even if the two strikes are from the same place. An alternative
solution to the two strikes is the wiping of the soil(or earth)already present on
one's body, provided one intends tayammum when doing this. This situation
could arise by means of a dust storm where one is covered in sand. If this
occurred and one wiped the sand on his face and arms with the intention of
tayammun,, it is valid.


٧- The seventh condition stipulates that the things that are incompatible with


tayammum must discontinue before proceeding such as menstrual periods,
postnatal bleeding or minor impurity.


rd CAS cell eres bly ٥: op


٨ The eighth condition that validates tayammum is to remove obstacles that
prevent the wiping of the skin, such as wax or fatty grease, because if one wipes
with these things present on the body, then he will in actual fact be wiping the
wax or fat and not the skin.


arabs ٩ pelo
The Reason For Tayammum And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
© gain gil g٨ S٩٠ LS ٤٣ ga y to)gal y Arseny
The reason for tayammum and the conditions that make it obligatory are the
same as wudu; namely, one cannot be legal for acts of worship unless he is pure.


Its conditions are sanity, maturity, Islam, being in a state of minor impurity, and
so forth.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨١


pag als sl


Its Pillars
ae gly cpAcll eames oS yy


There are two pillars of tayammum; they are to wipe the arms(with the elbows)and the wiping of the face. If a person neglects one of these, then his tayammum
is invalid.
Sunan Of Tayammum
dame mall cows
The sunan of tayammum are seven;


a plly ll GI


To say, "In the name of God, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate" at the start, and to
perform the actions in chronological order; namely, to wipe the face before the
hands(to the elbows).


oY sl,


To perform the actions of tayammum successively without pausing between them.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked about the process of
wiping, and it is reported that[He struck the ground with his palms, then raised
them to his face, after which he struck the ground again and then wiped his arms,
the inner part and outer part until he touched his elbows with his hands]."


CC sglecdt ٣ SiS ss pall DD)Leo cer ily lqeaidy LA shal y ANS lets tes etl JLily


When a person places his hands upon the earth, it is sunna to rub them forward
and backward in the soil, after which he is to shake off his hands. In addition to
this, the fingers are to be open and spread from one another, not clenched when
striking the ground. The reason is to allow the earth to get in between the fingers
to ensure optimum cleaning. Note: the procedure of shaking the hands is by


hitting them together, and this is done by keeping the hands horizontal bumping
only the index fingers.


Abu Yusuf asked Abu Hanifa about how to perform tayammum and Abu Hanifa
clarified this by leaning over to clean earth and rubbing his hands in it forward
and backward, after which he raised his hands and shook them and wiped his
face. He then he repeated what he did with his hands by striking the ground a
second time and rubbing them forward and backward. Then he raised them,
shook them off and wiped each arm with the opposite hand including the inner
area of the arm up to the elbows.' The procedure of tayammum regarding the
arms is as follows: after one has struck the ground with his hands a second time,


" Darqutani in his Sunan ١/١٧٩.
? Maraky al-Falah ٧٧.


٨٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


he is to wipe the outward part of his right arm with the inside of his four fingers of
his left hand(ie. deft hand for right arm)from the tips of his fingers up to the elbow.
He is then to use his left palm without the fingers and wipe the inner part of his
right arm(from the elbow)up to the wrists. He is then to pass the inner part of his
left thumb over the outward part of his right thumb. He is then to repeat this


action for his left arm."
pol ob


When To Delay Tayammum
SM oF foe en ob peal eb Ow,
It is recommended to delay tayammum when one expects(according to his


predominant view that)he will attain water before the end of the prayer time.
There is narration from Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf that in this situation, one is


required to delay tayammum.
eLadlk Jy cbse JL obs,


If one has been promised water, it wajib to delay tayammum, even if one fears
that he will miss the prayer from its time. This is agreed upon in the Madhhab,
provided the water is available and close by. If however, the water is not present
with the person who promised it, or it is one mile away or more, then delaying
tayammum is not required.


Lad Gt dled hol te Sh big,


Provided there is no fear of missing the prayer from its time, it is necessary to
delay the prayer when a person has been promised clothes to cover his nakedness
or a water skin or rope to withdraw water. Though if one fears he will miss the
prayer, then he is to perform tayammum and pray, whereas the two companions
said even if he fears he will miss the prayer, he must still wait, just like the one
who has been promised water is to delay.'

UI Lb


Requesting Water
WEYL pe ae ٥ gb of ٨ phe Slay | jade Sl Ul bos,


It is wajib to seek water the distance of ٤٠٠ steps if one believes it is near-by,
provided it is safe to do so. If not, then he need not search. Note: if one believes
water is close by based on evidence such as the presence of a bird, fruit or
information received, then he is required to seek water the distance of ٣٠٠-٤٠٠
steps in the direction he believes the water to be; and it is not permitted for him to
perform tayammum unless he has searched for water. If on the other hand he
does not believe water is near-by, then he is under no obligation.'


" ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٢ | Al-Badai" vol.١, ٤٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٧٧.
* Al-Hidaya ٥٠


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨٣


Of ٤p ٠٩l po ae ٥)alee spat VY dla daly cp gelling ces Y Je SOUS Of ane yr of ab ky
anh ye Wald ane lS


One is required to request water from an accompanying person(or one of his
companions if they have it), provided that one is in a place where people are not
stingy or miserly with the water." And if one is not given water unless it is paid for
at the average price, then one must pay if he has extra money left-over from what
is needed for his basic requirements. If however the water is being sold at an
unreasonable price, then it is not compulsory to purchase the water. Hence, these
are the three conditions that require the purchase of the water; i.e. that one is in a
place where people are not stingy with water(this is to indicate that the water will
generally be given in such a place), the price is standard, and one has the means
to purchase it apart from what he needs for his basic requirements. A person is
not required to purchase the water if it is selling at a high price or at the average
price, though one does not have the means to purchase it, or one needs the funds
for his basic requirements."


eal all
Prayer With Tayammum
One may offer as many obligatory and voluntary prayers he desires with only one
tayammum, though it is superior to repeat tayammum in order to remove oneself
from the view of the Shafi'i Madhhab. Imam Shafi'i held that he is to perform
tayammum(afresh)for every obligatory prayer. The Hanafi view is that he is in a
state of purification as long as water is unavailable, which means he can perform


his obligation as long as its condition is valid. Therefore, tayammum acts like
wudu in that one is deemed pure until it is broken.


cS Il Le nd roy


It is valid to perform tayammum before the entry of the prayer time, just like it is
valid to offer as many obligatory and optional prayers one likes, because
tayammum is purification that is legally acknowledged provided the water is
unavailable. Therefore, tayammum acts in its place as long as this condition is
present.'


If one is in to a place where people are miserly with the water or they will not give water under
any circumstances, then one is to make tayammum and pray. What is meant here is that one is
convinced he will be refused or denied, in which case one is to perform tayammum and pray. If
one of his companions has water, he is to ask him prior to performing tayammum. If one
performs tayammum before making a request or demand for water, it is valid according to Abu
Hanifa because it is not binding upon him to make such a demand on another person's
property. The two disciples maintain that he does not acquire the reward because water is
usually given.[Al-Hidaya ٥١].

? Maraky al-Falah ٧٨.

٣ AlFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٠.


٨٤ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


pad Ee at gh Os ssl ols Jy
If the majority or half of the body is injured, one is permitted to perform


tayammum. The limbs which are assessed in this case are those used in wudu.
Therefore, if half of these limbs or the majority is hurt, tayammum is permitted.
For example: if the head, face and arms are injured and yet there is no injury with
the feet, one is permitted to observe tayammum.


atl cae Lak bere o IOS Ul,
If the majority of the body is sound, then one is to wash the unharmed area and


wipe the injured part.
ots Pl ow aot Vs


One cannot combine the use of water and tayammum together; for example, a
person cannot use water for half his arm, and perform tayammum for the other
half. If one does not have enough water to complete washing, then he is to observe


tayammum.


Moreover, if one forgets water during his journey, performs tayammum and
prays, but later remembers that he has water, he is not to repeat the prayer
according to Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, while Abu Yusuf held that he is to
repeat it. The disagreement pertains to the situation of where he placed the water.
Did he place it in a particular place or did someone do so at his command; and
remembering at the time of prayer or thereafter is the same. Note: there are three
scenarios here: a)he placed it himself and did not look for it, b)his slave or
servant did it for him, but he did not know, and c)he did so himself, but forgot. In
the first case, his prayer is not valid on the basis of consensus[ijma]. The other
two cases are discussed here. Abu Yusuf argues that he is a "seeker of water" and
on a journey a traveller is usually prepared with respect to water and looking for it
is required of him. Abu Hanifa and Muhammad hold that there is no such ability
without knowledge, and the water on a journey is readied for drinking and not for
other use. "
meal ail »
Nullifications Of Tayammum
GUS AN Slee Ue dually oy b gl ail way


The factors that nullify tayammum are the same as wudu. It is also annulled
when one has the ability to use a sufficient amount of water to wash the required
parts at least once. The meaning of 'having the ability to use the water' is to have a
quantity of water sufficient for wudu, even if one has only enough to wash each
limb once. Having the ability to use the water also means one's excuse of permitting
tayammum is no longer present, such as the enemy retreating or one's sickness
has been alleviated or it is no longer cold or one has found an instrument by
which to extract water, in which case tayammum is void.





" Al-Hidaya ٥٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨٥


There are also other aspects to consider in relation to the nullification of
tayammum. The first case is that the person in the state of tayammum sees water
prior to offering the prayer, in which case the tayammum becomes void. The second
case relates to one who sees water during prayer, in which case the Hanafis hold
that the sighting of water during prayer invalidates it given that purification has
ended. Shafi'i holds that the tayammum does not become invalid after one has
entered the prayer because the prayer has been called for and entered and
because Allah states[Do not terminate your deeds]." The third case pertains to one
who sees water after the completion of prayer. If one sees water after the time for
the prayer has ended, then one is not to repeat his prayer, and there is no
disagreement concerning this. Though if one sees it prior to the end of the prayer
time, then one is not to repeat his prayer according to the majority of jurists with
the exception of the Maliki Madhhab.'


cbr My cats)& phate O١٥ ١٣}ce ١ Se
The Ruling Of The Wounded With No Hands Or Feet
tee V٩ Bylgb pry heey S| > ager ٩ O"S ١٣]Ogle Sy Gristl ¢ phi,


The one who has no hands and no feet and suffers from a wound upon his face, is
permitted to pray without purification and does not need to repeat prayer(and
this is the soundest view). Furthermore, Ibn Abidin states: The restricted or
limited person who does not possess the two purificatory elements[at-Tahurain};
namely, water or clean earth in that they are constrained to an unclean place and
unable to extract clean earth; or it may be that one's illness prevents one from
seeking water or clean earth, then prayer is delayed according to Abu Hanifa
while the two companions held that one is to resemble and imitate those that pray
and that this is wajib. So one is to bow and prostrate facing the qgibla without
reciting Quran regardless if one is a state of minor or sexual impurity; this is
provided one finds a dry area. If not, then one may offer the prayer through
indication(ie. nodding)while standing. However, this resemblance does not
remove the obligation of offering the obligatory prayer and the prayer must be
repeated when one acquires water or clean earth. This case is similar to that of a
fasting person. For example, when a woman with menses becomes clean during
the day in Ramadan; she is required to abstain from eating the remainder of the
day resembling those who fast and make up the day later. The legal ruling on the
matter has been issued in accordance with this view, and Abu Hanifa later
reversed his decision in accordance with this view(regarding imitation).


Likewise, the one with no hands or feet and with an injury upon the face is to pray
without purification and is not to perform tayammum and is not to repeat the
prayer. If one has no injury upon his face, then he is to wipe it in clean earth if he


" Muhammad ٣٣.
? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٣.


٨٦ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


cannot wash it. Therefore, this ruling differs to the ruling above; in that one who
is unable to find the two purificatory elements(that is, water or clean earth)due to
an illness is required to delay it or resemble those who pray as mentioned
previously and make up the prayer later."!


٢,
"~~


°
oe
°,
"~~


Od! fe abl Ob


Wiping The Footgear(Khuffain)The wiping of the footgear' has been established by the Prophet's sayings and
actions((God bless him and grant him peace)). Scholars have mentioned that it
was sanctioned in the ٩" year of Hijra and there has been a vast deal of narrations
on the matter. From these narrations is what Ibn Khuzayma and Ibn Habban
relate; that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))permitted those
travelling to wipe for three days and three nights, and for the non-traveller - one
day and one night, provided one purified himself and then wore the khuf.
Likewise, it is related from Hassan al-Basri that he said, "J was told by seventy
Companions that the Prophet wiped his khuf, and it is the heart of the sunna, and that the
greatest in merit are the two 'Amrayn', and that(one must)love the Khatanan and that it is
permissible to wipe the khuf." The 'Amrayn' are Abu Bakr and Umar(may Allah be
pleased with them). And the Khatanan are Al-Hasan and al-Husain, the sons of
Ali Ibn Abi Talib(may Allah be pleased with them). Abu Hanifa said that
because this news of wiping the footgear has reached us by way of tawatur(uninterrupted transmission in large numbers), then he fears that one who denies
its permissibility has committed disbelief.'


" Ibn Abidin.

* The footgear typically worn by Muslims are ankle-high leather socks that are worn inside
the shoes. Muslims are permitted to wipe the footgear instead of washing the feet for
wudu. Additionally, the term kAuffain is the dual of kAuf.

* AHkhtiyar.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٨٧


AE Jo cemall Sm
The Ruli: Witing The Khuffain(Footgear,
WS el yew MLN ab ndF ep gd pe WIS gS ycLitly Sle U ee Sad bonito ll re
Y lake o old
It is valid for both men and woman to wipe the khuf(footgear)to obtain


cleanliness from the state of minor impurity," even if the wiping is on something
thick other than leather,' and it is the same if the sole is made of leather or not.


col ily bap
Conditions That Permit The Wiping
bby po tae idl Jo moll ht bis
Seven conditions are required to validate the wiping:
oy gh)AU Spam JF afl Ite ys SOLS fo gly one It pee te ed UI


١- The first requires that they be worn after washing the feet. It is permissible to
wear the khuf even before completing wudu, provided the person completes the
wudu before the occurrence of anything that invalidates it. For example, if a
person begins wudu by washing his feet, wears the khuf, and then breaks wind
before the completion of wudu, the wiping of the khuf is ruined and one must re-
do the process.


aS LA pes Gly
٢- They must cover the feet up to(and including)the ankles.
atom ght sh cle ٥ cp it Le jy We ٤d gill duke ١%]: Sut,


٣- One must be able to continuously walk in them.' It is not permissible for one to
wipe on footgear that have been made from glass, wood or steel.





" One is not permitted to wipe his footgear to acquire cleanliness from major impurity.

: Maraky alFalah states several examples of things other than leather such as /ukh(a thick
cloth)and Kirbaas(which is a thick type of cotton). The definition of Kirbaas is derived from the
dictionary of Legal terms(Masbah al-Munir ٢٧٣). In any case, these feet coverings must hold to
the feet without being tied and they must not absorb water to the skin according to Muhammad
and Abu Yusuf. This is also the saying of Abu Hanifa and the fatwa issued is in accordance
with this view.

٣ It must be possible to continuously walk in khufs for a distant of one farsakh(which is three
miles and more)according to the Hanafis. Given this, it is not permissible to wipe on footgear
that will tear with walking and neither on footgear that is not possible to walk in due to its
weight, such as footgear made from metal and so forth.[Ibn Abidin ١/١٣٩}.


٨٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


e-all glel Poel os poled SG ٣٣٥ SF oe ae IS gh: ells


٤- The fourth condition requires that cach khuf be free from a tear the size
equivalent to three of the smallest toes. If it is less, it is permitted. Imam Zufar
and Shafi'i said that it is not permitted even if the tear is less than this measure,
because the obligation of washing the area exposed makes the washing of the rest
obligatory. The basis of the Hanafi school is that the footgear[khuffain| is usually
not free from minor tears and the people will face hardship in taking them off.
Note: if for example the tears on one khuf are spread out, then it is of no harm if
the sum total of these tears is /ess than the measure described above; and if there
are multiple tears from both khufs, then they are not to be combined; that is, each
khuf is judged on its own. This means that if there are tears on both khufs which
do not prevent the wiping, though if combined would equal the prohibited
measure; it does not prevent the validity of the wiping and the wiping is legal."


des ne cpt ple I fe gSlnerel : lb,
٥- They must hold to the feet without being tied.
Id Af Ul S poy L gare : less


٦- They must prevent water from reaching the skin. Note: they must prevent the
amount of water present on the hand at the time of wiping. They are not
waterproof, but they must prevent this amount from reaching the skin.


Yeo pis LGB OLS yd AI lel rel ope bel OU pad pall pie ye gy OI GL
or ٩٤ phat nde ONS yy ate le emer


٧- For wiping to be valid, the front part of the foot must be physically present, the
length being equivalent to three of the smallest fingers of the hand.' And if one is
missing the front part of his foot, he cannot wipe his khuf even if the heel is
present, because the compulsory place to wipe is absent. It is therefore
compulsory to wash the foot instead. Mere presence of the heel is not sufficient for
the wiping to be valid.


" Radd al-Muhtar ١/٤٦٠.


* This means that the length is to be equal to width of three of the smallest fingers. If not, then
it is not permissible.


BOoK I: PURIFICATION ٨٩


le jlicl, col bbe
The Duration Of Wiping And When It Begins
CAIN J day DIDI ٥g ye all elscal"y ILL LIS BLN, AS, Leys pill eness


A resident(non-traveller)is permitted to wipe his footgear for one day and one
night(i.e. ٢٤ hours)whereas the traveller is permitted three days and three nights(i.e. ٧٢ hours)and this period begins when a person breaks his wudu after wearing
the footgear." Ali(Allah be pleased with him)said that[The Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))had appointed three days and three nights
as the period when a traveller is permitted to observe wiping, and one day and
one night as the period for the non-traveller].


wal es Sle as
Changing One's Status
BLaMI bade Sl ius LE Ld Ble ٣ pada ene Oly


If a resident begins to wipe and then travels before completing his term, then he is


to complete the period permitted for a traveller, which is three days and three
nights.'


ALS y Leys ae Vgc ٦٣ dy ley: cane le dey SL pid OL,


If however, a traveller becomes a resident, and had already wiped for one day and
one night, then the wiping is nullified because he is now a resident, though if he
had not wiped for one day and one night, he is to complete this term.


nw ٩٦g ws
The Portion Which Is Obligatory To Wipe And Its Sunna
os JS pads lb de att abel rl oo elel OW ud ell ٢ ٣٥
It is obligatory to wipe the area equivalent to the three smallest fingers of the
hand over the top part of each foot. Note: if this area becomes wet even with a
cloth or by pouring water over the required area, then it is permissible. Though
the sunna is to use the hand. Additionally, the wiping of the footgear is to be done


once only over the top part of each khuf. It is not valid to wipe beneath the khuf,
nor the back or side of it; and it is not sunna to repeat the wiping."


" For example; if a person makes wudu at ٨:٠٠ am and then wears his footgear, and then at


١٢:٠٠ pm, he breaks his wudu. His duration therefore begins from ١٢:٠٠ pm because it is at that
time in which he first broke his wudu.


? For example; If one's duration of wiping his footgear begins at ١٠:٠٠ am Monday, because
that is when he first broke his wudu; and then later that night at around ٨:٠٠ pm, he becomes a


traveller, he is permitted to keep wiping his footgear until Wednesday ١٠:٠٠ am. This is a total
of seventy two hours.


° Maraky al-Falah ٨٢.


٩٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


BLT Spall asleod usd)oye Se pie plo Vitec acer
It is sunna to begin the wiping from the toes of the feet up to the shin with spread
fingers. It has been narrated that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))passed by a man who was performing wudu and he was washing his khuf,
the Prophet then took him by the hand and said, "Verily, my Lord ordered me to wipe
like this," and the Prophet showed him from the front of the khuf toward the leg
once, and the Prophet spread between the fingers."


cl ail y
Nullifications Of Wiping


elatl as jf dal peace palin y
There are four things which annul wiping;


£ ٢ gl pis + <~ JS
١- Wiping is nullified by all things which nullify wudu. This means that if one
breaks wind for example, then his wudu is void as well as the wiping over the
footgear. Therefore, he must make wudu again and wipe the footgear. However,
he is not required to take off the footgear and wash his feet.


AL Ske SI eal ASI oy Sus gly Bi
٢- The removal of the khuf invalidates the wiping, not wudu. The same mule
applies even if the majority of the foot is revealed, because once the foot is
exposed, the minor impurity extends to the foot which now requires washing.
Moreover, the removal of the khufon one foot requires the removal of the other
and the washing of both.'


ceed fe IG esl guol psi Ul dLely
٣- When the majority of one of the feet becomes wet with water, the wiping is
ruined. This is achieved when over half the foot becomes wet.
Ol cys he y led AE ١ OL BA ge


٤- When the period for wiping expires, the wiping is nullified provided one does
not fear he will lose his leg due to intense cold. If one fears such a thing, then he is
permitted to keep the footgear on until it is safe to take them off. In addition, if
the period expires while one is praying, the prayer is void.


hb ey Pei cVswWiae,


The last three points(namely, point ٢, ٣, and ٤)require only, the washing of the feet,
not wudu.


" Tabarani ٢/٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٨٣.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩١


the ell ٥ £ YL
That Which Is Not Permitted To Wipe On
ale fe ell ٥٥٢ Yo
It is not permissible to wipe on;


The turban. It is unlawful to wipe on the turban in exchange for wiping the head,
because it may prevent water from penetrating the turban and entering upon the
head, in which case the area required to be wiped(i.e. a quarter)was not
performed. It has been reported that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))did wipe on his turban, but what is ascertained from this is that the
wetness would reach his honourable head.{Malik informed that a report reached
me from Jabir Ibn Abdullah that he was asked about the wiping over the turban
and then he said; "No, not without the water touching the hair.""


Ady ٣ ٩ byl s
It is not permitted over the cap, veil or gloves because there is no hardship in
taking off these things. Nafi reported that he saw Safiyyah bint Abi Ubayd
perform wudu, she pulled off her headscarf then wiped her head.' Imam
Muhammad said we adhere to this: the headscarf should not be wiped over, nor


the turban. It has been narrated that the wiping over the turban was performed,
then abandoned. This is the verdict of Abu Hanifa and our fuqaha in general.


Lapuydadl Gd fui
Wiping The Splint Or Bandage And The Like'
dows plan Vy pall Job ahs VOI Dee gG Sy edti ve pas pS sl ox sh sacl lil
paslasclh sl fe aulicrs


If blood is drawn from a limb, or one suffers an injury or broken limb, after
which he applies a splint or bandage, and due to the severity of the injury is
unable to wash or wipe the limb, then it is necessary[wajib]to wipe the majority
of what is used to support the limb. That is, if one is unable to wipe the limb, then
it is necessary to wipe over the splint or bandage. Note: there are two views in the
Hanafi Madhhab concerning whether it is necessary[wajid]or obligatory[fard]to
wipe over the bandage. Abu Hanifa does not deem it obligatory; rather he
maintains that it is necessary[wajib]; and this is the correct view, to the extent that





" Muwattah of Imam Muhammad ٥٢
? Muwattah of Imam Muhammad ٥٣.
* The term jadira is typically two supports made of wood or palm branches and something
similar, which is then wrapped with cotton material over the broken limb. What is similar to


this is everything that is placed upon a part of the body which requires it, such as bandages,
leather or a brace.


٩٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


if one neglects the wiping without the possibility of harm or aggravation, it is
valid, and the prayer is not deemed void. As for the two companions(Abu Yusuf
and Muhammad), Shafi'i and the majority of jurists, they held that it is obligatory
to wipe on the basis that the Prophet wiped over his bandage and that when Ali
broke his forearm during the battle of Uhud, or on the day of Khaybar, the
Prophet ordered him to wipe over the bandages.


They also used as proof that analogical reasoning(giyas| applies here due to the
wiping over the footgear[khuffain|." Abu Hanifa maintained that wiping is an
exchange from washing and that washing beneath the bandage is not necessary if
it becomes exposed, though this is contrary to what is beneath the footgear[Ahuffain]; and he held that the hadith of Ali does not impose the obligation on the
basis that it is a solitary narration[khabar ahad]. He therefore maintained that the
proof is speculative[dAanni]and not decisive{gat 't].'


Furthermore, with respect to the amount required to be wiped, Abu Hanifa held
that it is sufficient to wipe the majority of the bandage and that man has not been
requested to wipe the entirety, given that it would be burdensome and lead to
aggravation of the injury. Shafi'i held that the entirety is to be wiped with water
and that partial wiping does not suffice. This is because the limb requires
complete washing, so likewise with wiping.


Aaah ylvae Spy dtl yo ٥٤ be fe renal! a٥ y


If removal of the bandage would cause aggravation or further harm, then it is
sufficient to wipe the part of the body that is visible between the bandages without
having to remove the bandage. Such an act is undertaken to prevent water from
trickling upon the injury that may result in infection or otherwise. If no harm
would be caused by untying the bandage, then one is to undo it and wash the


unharmed area and wipe the injury; but if wiping(the injury)would cause harm,
then one is to leave it.*


Therefore, in order to wipe over the splint, cast or bandage, it is conditional that
washing or wiping the injured limb not be possible, for fear of causing
aggravation, an increase in pain, or a delay in recovery. Likewise, one must not be
able to remove the bandage or cast for fear of causing further harm or a delay in
recovery. If one believes no adverse consequences will occur from removing the
support, then wiping over the bandage or splint is not permissible. Moreover, the
bandage must not go beyond the affected area. If it does, then one will be
required to undo it and wash the unaffected area behind it provided no harm will
follow."


" Maraky al-Falah ٨٤ / Tabarani - Masnad ash-Shamiyin ١/٢٦٢ / Ibn Majah ٦٥٧.
" Al-Ikhtiyar ٤٠-٤١ | Al-Figh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٥.

* Maraky al-Falah ٨٤.

' ALFigh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٤.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٣


Al-Ikhtiyar states. If the bandage over the injury extends beyond the actual wound
or cut; and untying the bandage and washing beneath it will cause harm to the
injury, then one is to wipe over the entire area(or the majority according to Abu
Hanifa). However, if untying the bandage and washing the unaffected area will not
cause harm, then one is to wash the unaffected area around the wound and wipe
the wound. If wiping the wound will adversely affect a person, then one is[to
leave the bandage tied and]wipe the section directly above the injury. One is also
to wash the area around the injured site and where the bandage has covered
unaffected skin, one is to wipe the untouched area beneath this. This is because
wiping has been granted due to necessity and it is to be restricted according to its
measure. !


ote os y % pels cell ٣

Wiping over the bandage or splint is like washing the area beneath it as long as
the cause is present. There is no time limit on how long a person can wipe the
bandage, though this is contrary to the wiping of the footgear[khuffain], which has
a duration of twenty four hours for a resident — after which one must remove his
footgear and wash his feet. Though wiping one's splint or bandage has no
duration and can be wiped as long as there is a standing reason. The only factor
that does not allow one to wipe over an injury is when the injury heals.


sob Je i ptlae bp Vy


It is not a stipulation to tie the splint(or bandage)in a state of purification. This
means that one is not required to place the bandage upon the injured area in a
state of wudu. However, with respect to wiping the footgear[khuffain], one is
required to wear them in a state of purification.


SPM fab eo che NW Stole eee yt


To wipe the bandage on one foot and wash the other is permissible. However, this
is not permissible for the wiping of the footgear[khuffain].


oll Ji lgb ye elt flaw Vy
The wiping is not nullified if the bandage falls off before the wound heals,


because there is a standing reason according to the Hanafis. However, this is
contrary to Shafi'i and other jurists who hold that its removal or its falling off
invalidates the wiping."


aioke]JuadVly « Ugbe eeu sale]Ut Vy be piu Ugh bys


It is permitted to change one bandage with another. And it is not necessary to
repeat the wiping on the new bandage provided the old one was wiped though it
is preferable to do so. Furthermore, if one places a new bandage on top of the old
one, then he is not required to wipe the top one. Likewise, if one wipes over the


" Al-Ikhtiyar ٤١.
? ALFigh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٦.


٩٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


top bandage and then ruins it(or removes it), one is not required to wipe the
bandage beneath the top one.!


A٦٥٣ ٠ pd y byl pe tdle sf IShe shelyoade far ye th Sl hae pur Yor wl, ae, tity


٤S Fi cello oo ON ٩ ٦ cell I jhe
If one's eye is infected and the physician orders him not to wash it, or one has
broken his nail and has applied medicine upon the injury or an aid or the skin of
an animal for healing, the removal of which is harmful, then it is permissible to
wipe over the medicine. If however, it will cause harm to wipe over the medicine,
then it is permitted to omit the wiping.


ol Mya ntly bl ee Ga I ee V٥


One is not required to form an intention for wiping on the footgear[kAu/], splint,
and head. It is agreed among the scholars that a person is not required to have an
intention when wiping the splint or head, whereas for the wiping on the khuf, it is
evident that intention is not a stipulation although some scholars have stated that
it is.
The Chapter Of Menstrual Periods, Postnatal and Chronic Vaginal Discharge
elt ١ yi
The types of blood
Ablaruly play a> ll ow TF

The types of blood that exit from the female(vagina)are menstrual periods[hayd],
postnatal bleeding[néfas]and chronic vaginal discharge[istihada]. The topic of
menstrual periods is one of the most important issues based on the fact that a vast
amount of rules are derived from it such as divorce, lineage, the permissibility of
intercourse, prayer, fasting, the recitation of Quran, i'tikaf(religious retreat), the
entering of a mosque, tawaf around the ka'bah and maturity. With respect to how
menstrual periods affects divorce is that; divorce is of three types: hasan(proper),
ahsan(more proper)and bid'(innovative). The ahsan form of divorce is that a
man divorces a woman with a single repudiation pronounced during her period of
purity from menstruation during which he has not had intercourse with her. He
then waits until she completes her waiting period('iddah). The hasan form, which
is termed talaq al-Sunna is when a woman whose marriage has been
consummated is divorced with three repudiations pronounced in three periods of
purity(one in each). And ¢alag al-bid'ch(innovation)is when the man divorces her
with three repudiations pronounce in a single period of purity. If one does this,
the divorce takes effect, but one has sinned." It is therefore evident as to why this
subject is of great importance.


" Maraky al-Falah ٨٥.
* Al-Hidayah ١/٢٦٦ | Maraky al-Falah ٨٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٥(al
Menstrual Bleeding |Hayd|

PLES atl ily. ALY ge Als dy > Volpe Yl pp aaiz er Lat
٥ tee Sly duh abu gly


Menstrual bleeding is blood that discharges(forcefully)from the uterus of a
female who has attained puberty, who is not ill or pregnant and has not reached
the age of menopause(which is fifty five years old; and the fatwa issued is based
on this view). The minimum days of menstrual periods are three days and three
nights. The average is five days and the maximum is ten days. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[The minimum period for hayd in the case
of a virgin girl or deflowered women is three days and its accompanying nights,
while the maximum is ten days]." This is proof that is contrary to the view of
Imam Shafi'i who fixes it at one day and one night. Also, the red, yellow and dark
coloured fluid that a woman sees during the period of menses is menstruation,
until she sees pure white." A'ishah(God be pleased with her)deemed whatever
was other than pure white as menses.' Hence, when a woman sees blood for less
than three days after which it discontinues and sees pure white after that, then it
is deemed as chronic discharge[istihada]according to the Hanafi school; while
blood less than one day and one night is deemed as chronic discharge according
to Shafi'.


Supplementary notes from Ibn Abidin"s Hashia


According to the Sacred law, when a person attains puberty, he/she is said to have
matured[baligh]. No girl becomes mature prior to the age of nine years. Note: only
lunar months and years are taken into consideration in Islamic matters. A girl is
said to be mature is she experiences menstruation after the age of nine; or when
she sexually enjoys intercourse in her dream and seminal fluid is discharged; or
she has no menstruation, but becomes pregnant. As for the girl under the age of nine,
if she sees blood, then it is regarded as chronic vaginal discharge[istéhada]; and
this is the strongest view. The same applies to the menopausal woman according
to the evident view in the Madhhab.


The pillar of menstruation is the emergence of blood from the uterus; that is, the
appearance of blood to the immediate part outside the vagina. If the blood
remains in the inner part of the vagina, then it is not deemed menses; and this is
the most evident view upon which the legal ruling[fatwa]coincides with according
-o Quhustani. However, Muhammad held that it is based on the woman feeling it.


Darqutani, al-Zayla'i, vol ١, ١٩١.
_ Al-Hidayah ٦٠.
Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ١٩٣.


٩٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION[It states in Sharh al-Wagayya:| It is recommended for a virgin to use cotton wool,
Sanitary pads or a piece of old clothing during her menses to cover her private
part and for a non-virgin — it is recommended all the time. It is disliked to place
something in the internal area of the private part(as is done with tampons).


The least time for menstrual periods is three days and their nights(the nights have
been added in this text to clarify the extent of time in hours, which is seventy two astronomical
hours). Verily, it is not conditional for the blood to continue throughout this time in
a manner where there is no stoppage for an hour, because this is rare. Indeed, the
discontinuation for an hour or two or more does not invalidate it. And the
maximum time for menstruation is ten days and their nights(or ٢٤٠ hours).


That which is short of the minimum duration(of three days or seventy two hours)even by a
small margin of time is regarded as chronic vaginal bleeding |istthada| and not menstruation.
Al-Quhustani said: "If the woman experiencing menses for the first time sees
blood when half the plate of the sun has risen and its stops on the fourth day
when one quarter has risen, then it is deemed istihada(because it has fallen short of
the minimum duration of seventy two hours), though if half the plate of the sun has
risen, then it will be regarded as menstrual periods. And with respect to the
woman with her regular days, such as five for example; if she sees blood when half
the sun has risen from the horizon and it stops on the eleventh day when one
third has risen, then the surplus above five is deemed chronic vaginal discharge[tstthada], because it increased upon the tenth day with the amount of one sixth."!


The characteristic of menstrual blood — The jurists agree that its colour is red but
Closer to being black, and that it has a foul smell. As for the colours of yellow,
muddy and green during the time of menses, the preferred view according the
Majority of Hanafi, Shafi'i, Maliki and Hanbali scholars is that it is judged as
menstrual blood. And they relied upon the hadith of A'ishah that is recorded in
the Muwatta of Imam Malik:[Woman used to send little boxes to A'ishah with a
Piece of cotton cloth in each one on which was yellowness from menstrual blood,
asking her about prayer. She said to them: "Do not be hasty until you see a white
discharge." By this she meant purity from menses."


ols!
Postnatal Bleeding | Nifas


Postnatal bleeding(nifas)is blood that discharges after giving birth. The
maximum days of postnatal bleeding is forty days. There is no fixed limit on the
minimum period which means the bleeding may stop at any time before the forty
days. Anas(God be pleased with him)is reported to have said that Allah's


" That is, she noticed blood when half the sun had risen and it stopped after the tenth day
when one third had risen. The difference between half and one third is one sixth.
* Muwatta of Imam Malik ٩٩.[Radd al-Muhtar vol. ١/٤٧٤]BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٧


Messenger((God bless him and grant him peace))had prescribed forty days for
women in the state of nifas, except if she is purified before this." Therefore, if a
woman gives birth and sees blood in excess of forty days according to Abu Hanifa
and six days according to Shafi'i, then the excess is deemed as chronic vaginal
discharge[istthada].


soln Vil
Chronic Vaginal Discharge{Istihada}pla dnd dey pad Gite fo alj sl Pll OU we ati po aL YI,


Istihada is the discharge of blood that stops in less than three days or blood in
excess of ten days of menstrual bleeding. Equally, the excess of blood after forty
days of postnatal bleeding is regarded as Istihada(chronic vaginal discharge).
Hence, if a woman begins to bleed and it ceases in less than three days, it is not
menstrual bleeding, it is chronic vaginal discharge[istihada]. Also, the maximum
amount of days for a menstrual period is ten days; the blood after ten days is
regarded as chronic vaginal bleeding. This also applies to the excess of blood after
forty days of postnatal bleeding.


In addition, if a woman with regular days bleeds beyond her regular days of
menses and postnatal bleeding and the blood persists until it breaches the
maximum duration for menses and postnatal bleeding, then it is deemed chronic
vaginal bleeding[istihada]. Equally, the female that sees blood prior to the age of
nine as well as the pregnant woman is considered chronic discharge.


Moreover, if a woman who has a known routine bleeds beyond her regular days of
menses and they are seven for example, then there are two situations that may
occur: ١)if the regular days change during the days of her menses, such as the
menses becoming-nine or ten days, then it is regarded as menses and her regular
days are considered changed. Indeed, it is established that the regular days of a
woman become established even after the one time of menses. Hence, her regular
days are that which she sees last, which may increase or decrease; so she is to fall
back on her last period. The same applies to postnatal bleeding in that a woman's
regular days may be twenty for example; then during the days of bleeding, it
changes to thirty or thirty five. ٢)If the bleeding exceeds ten days and she has a
known habit that is less than ten days(such as seven for example), then she is rely
on her normal course(i.e. seven)and whatever exceeds this is regarded as chronic


vaginal discharge[istihada]."


Nee EE


" Tbn Majah ٦٤٩.
? Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٤.


٩٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


atl oy poll hl
Pure Days between Two Menstrual Periods
o pSV a> Vy ly pe dh ead on poll phi pl,
The minimum days of purification that separates two menstrual periods is fifteen
days. There is no time limit on the maximum days she could be pure for because


it may extend to a year or two and cannot be determined by assessment, though it
is known she will have a minimum of fifteen pure days.


Hence, there is no limit for the maximum days of purity between two menstrual
periods; except for a female who just entered puberty suffering from chronic
vaginal bleeding[istihada]. In this case the scholars calculate for her ten days of
menstrual bleeding from when she first noticed the blood, regardless if she sees
the blood at the beginning of the month, its middle or end. She is to leave prayer
and fasting from the first sight of blood. She is then given a. maximum of fifteen
days in which she is deemed pure and required to offer prayer and fasting.
Women are required to make up the days of fasting in which they are deemed
pure.' Note: Al-JkAtiyar maintains that only ten days are regarded for her as
menstrual periods each month and in the remaining days(i.e. nineteen or twenty
days depending on the month)she is deemed pure and therefore required to
undertake the performance of prayer and fasting. This view is one relied upon in
the Madhhab contrary to the first view mentioned by Shurunbulali in Maraky
Falah that menstruation is ten days and chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]is
fifteen days.'


If however, a girl matures, though is not suffering from chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]and she develops a routine or schedule of regular days regarding
menstruation, though later she suffers from chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]and
the bleeding continues through her regular days and exceed the maximum days
of menstruation[Aayd]or the maximum days of postnatal bleeding[nifas], then she
is to rely on her regular days(or schedule)and whatever increases upon her
regular days is considered chronic vaginal discharge[istihada].' In light of this, she
is to make up the prayers for the days beyond her habit. Note: when a woman has
established a routine, such as seven days for example, though on the following
period she exceeds this and bleeds for twelve days, then due to the fact that she
exceeded the maximum duration of menses, she is to fall back upon her regular
days(which are seven)and anything above this is deemed chronic discharge{istihada|. However, if she had not exceeded the ten days(and bled for nine days
only), then this new number of nine days would be regarded as her new routine
for the following month.


" Nur al-Idah ٥٨.
? Al-Ikhtiyar ٤٦.
٣ Nur al-Idah ٥٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٩


Ibn Abidin states. If a period of purification(i.e. a stoppage of blood)occurs during
a woman's menses(where she bleeds, stops bleeding and then bleeds again), then
it is treated like the continual flow of blood. This is one of several views and the
reasoning is that the continuous flow of blood throughout the period of
menstruation is not a stipulation by consensus. This is one of the two narrations
from Abu Hanifa."


lilly adh sb
Forbidden Actions During Menstrual Periods And Postnatal Bleeding
etl as -lelly pate s٥
Eight things are forbidden for a woman during menses or postnatal bleeding;
e nally suall


١- Prayer is forbidden for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[When the menstruation begins, abandon prayer, and when it is
finished take a bath and pray].'


٢- Fasting, whether it is obligatory or optional, is unlawful on the basis of the
words of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace).


ol all Sod al ool ٣ y


٣- To recite a verse from the Quran is not lawful(i.e. the woman is not permitted
to read a verse of Quran, whether it is from memory or by reading it from the mus-
haf). This is due to the hadith of Ibn Umar who reported that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[The woman in the state of menses is not to
recite anything of the Quran and neither the sexually impure].' The unlawfulness
is the recitation. However, if it comes forth from one's tongue without the intent
of recitation, and was intended as supplication, or praise or intended as
invocation[tasbih], such as to say at the moment of tragedy, "To Allah we belong and
to Him we shall return," or at the time of mounting a beast "Glory be to the one who has
provided this for us, though we could never of had this via our own efforts;" or "Praise be to
Allah;" or "In the name of Allah;" or "O Allah! Forgive me and my parents;" then it is
permissible and not unlawful to utter any such things for there is no breach and
there is consensus among the scholars that invocations, takbir, tahlil(i.¢. there is no god
except Allah)and sending blessings upon Prophet Muhammad is permissible for
the one in the state of menses, postnatal bleeding and sexual impurity.
Furthermore, the Malikis permitted the menstruating woman and the woman
experiencing postnatal bleeding to recite Quran and touch it for recitation for the


" Radd al-Muhtar ١/٤٨٣.
? Abu Dawud ٢٨٦.
* Tirmidhi ١٣١, Ibn Majah ٥٩٦.


١٠٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


need to learn it or for fear of losing it. This rule however differs to one who is
sexually impure on the basis that the sexually impure person is able to become
pure by bathing and this can be done before recitation. However, the
menstruating woman is unable to do this and for that reason, she is permitted to
recite for the purposes of learning and teaching.'


He VI ms


٤ To touch the Quran is forbidden unless it be with a covering that is separate
from the Quran. Allah says[No-one can touch it, except those who are pure]'.
Note: one cannot touch any part of the Quran in such a state. Such parts include
the attached covering, the white part of the paper and the book itself. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[No one besides the person in a state
of purification is to touch the Quran].' It prohibited to touch the verses if they are
written on various items, such as a wall, clothing or piece of treasure or in books.
Moreover, it is unlawful to touch only the verses if they are written in book of
tafsir, hadith, figh and other subjects. However, if the Quranic verses in the books
of tafsir are more than that of the éafsir, then it takes the same ruling of touching
the Quran. As for touching the Quran with one's sleeve, there are two view that
have been reported from Imam Muhammad. The first is that it is prohibitively
disliked and the second is that it is not disliked. Lastly, it is permissible to turn the
pages of the Quran for recitation with certain things, such as a pen."


dome J yoy


٥- To enter a mosque is unlawful. This is due to the hadith that Umm Salam
reported that the Prophet entered the courtyard of this mosque(i.e. the holy
Prophet)and exclaimed with a loud voice,[The masjid is lawful neither for a man
in a state of janaba(major ritual impurity)nor a menstruating female].' And the
ruling for menstrual periods is like the ruling for postnatal bleeding(nifas).


il gly


٦- Tawaf around the ka'bah is forbidden in the state of menstrual periods and
postnatal bleeding, even if the tawaf accepted. This is because purity is
conditional to its perfect performance. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said[Perform that which the pilgrim of hajj performs, though do not make tawaf until
you become clean].° If one performs tawaf az-Ziyarah(a pillar of hajj)in a state of
major impurity, then one must sacrifice a cow or camel and for the tawaf deemed





Maraky al-Falah ٨٨ | Al-F igh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٦-١٤٧.
* Al-Wagi'ah ٧٩.

* An-Nasai, Darqutani and others. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ١٩٦-٩٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.

* Tbn Majah ٦٤٥.

* Bukhari ٣٠٥ / Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠]wajib, one is to sacrifice a sheep, unless she repeats the tawaf in a state of purity. "
Likewise, the one who makes tawaf in a state of minor impurity must sacrifice a
sheep unless one repeats the tawaf in a state of purity.' The Prophet said[Tawaf
around the House is like prayer, except that you may speak. So whoever speaks
should speak about that which is good].


cltls


٧- Sexual intercourse is unlawful for a menstruating woman or a woman in a state
of postnatal bleeding.'


iS Nod Wo plod by pV


٨- Likewise, sexual enjoyment of the area beneath the naval to the bottom of her
knees is unlawful. The basis for this is the hadith: Malik informed us: Zaid Ibn
Aslam informed us that a man asked the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace)), "What part of my wife is permissible to me while she is in her menstrual
periods?" He said, "She should put on her Izar{the large cloth wrapped around
the lower half of the body}, then your concern is with her upper half."> Imam
Muhammad said: this is the verdict of Abu Hanifa. Something easier than this
came from A'ishah who said[He should avoid the place of blood, and he may
have whatever else].


St eb SI > lity att oY pall abaail Ly
If the bleeding for the menstrual period stops due to reaching its maximum
duration of ten days; or the bleeding stops after forty days for postnatal bleeding(which is the maximum duration)then it is permissible for the female to have
sexual intercourse without performing the major bath. The reason is because the
verse in the Quran, in particular the word(٥ dt.)has two different readings. One
is recited with a sukun on the letter(٤٤)and a damma on the letter 'A' and the other
reading with a shadda on the letter(٤)and the letter '٤' and both letters read with
a fat-ha. The one with the sukun implies[Do not approach them until they are pure]ee ee eer
" ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٩.
? Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.

٣ Tirmidhi in the Chapter of Hajj ٩٦٠


* If a person does have sexual intercourse with his wife while she is menstruating, then it is
recommended for him to give charity with a dinar, repent and not do it again. It has been stated
that if the blood was dark, then one should donate a dinar. And if it were yellow, then one
should donate half a dinar. The basis for this charity is the report in Abu Dawud ٢٦٥, which
was authenticated by al-Hakim;((If a man had sexual intercourse with his wife and she is
menstruating, then if her blood was red, then he is to pay one dinar and if it were yellow, then
he is to give half a dinar)). It has also been mentioned that if it occurred at the beginning of the
period, then the amount is one dinar, if not, then half. Additionally, it is mentioned and
confirmed in al-Mabsut that if one says it is permissible to make love to his menstruating wife,
then he has committed disbelief.[(Maraky al-Falah ٨٩].


٥ Muwattah Muhammad ٧٥.


١٠٢ BOOK |: PURIFICATION





meaning the woman may not be approached until her menstrual period has
ceased, and this is at the end of ten days which is the maximum for a menstrual
Period, for if she sees any blood after ten days, it is not regarded as menstrual
periods, and for this reason intercourse is permitted without the major bath.!
However, the other reading recited with the shadda implies bathing which would
be read as[And do not approach them until they purify themselves}.'


Way ٦ bgeed plas Ball pesad gl Load y mans gh pact OF YI Yeale pl aig alaail ot Je V٥
SR Ly Legd gS Ley pally i an inj a pall abadil GU I gM ope DB ae ٥٢ ob
SNe Se > et dy


If however, the bleeding stops short of the maximum duration(for menses and
postnatal bleeding)by the woman completing her regular days, sexual intercourse
in not permitted unless one of the following three is satisfied:


i)she performs the major bath, or


ii)if she is unable to perform the major bath, then she is to perform tayammum
and pray even if it is a voluntary prayer, or

iii)until a prayer becomes due upon her. This occurs when the blood stops with
her regular periods(and she waits until the least amount of time from the end of a
Prayer passes upon her). This time must be sufficient enough to perform the
major bath and begin the prayer by saying 'Allahu akbar,' instead, she does not
perform the bath, nor does she perform tayammum until the time of that prayer
ends. In other words, when the blood of a menstruating woman stops and she has
enough time to either bath, or offer tayammum(with a prayer)before the time of
that prayer expires; though she does not do either of these and waits until the
prayer time finishes thus becoming a debt upon her, then she is permitted to have
Sexual intercourse. And as soon as the time expires(and the time of the new
prayer enters), sexual intercourse is permitted with her even though she has not
bathed or offered tayammum with a prayer. However, if this time is insufficient in
allowing the bath plus the saying of "Allahu akbar" for prayer(before the time
expires), then sexual intercourse is not permissible until she has a bath or waits
for the new prayer time to pass.


To reiterate through an example is the following: if the bleeding stops toward the
middle or end of the time of dhuhr and there is sufficient time for her to bath,
dress herself and say "Allahu akbar," then sexual intercourse is permitted when
the 'asr arrives. If there is insufficient time, then sexual intercourse is not
Permitted only until after sunset(or until she bathes).°


Bee ee ees a)Alikhtiyar ٤٥.

Al-Bagarah ٢٢٢.

" Maraky al-Falah ٩٠ / Radd al-Muhtar ٢/٤٠٣.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٣
Therefore, after the woman's regular days have ended, she cannot have intercourse unless a)she
performs the major bath; or b)offers tayammum(with a prayer); or c)a prayer time elapses on
her(in that she had sufficient time to wash and pray, but did not until a new time arrived).


In addition, if the bleeding ceases short of her regular days, though is more than
three days and less than ten(or less than forty days for post-natal bleeding), then
sexual intercourse is not permitted with her even if she bathes until she completes
her regular days. For example, her menstrual period routine may last for seven
days, but it stopped at five. In this case, sexual intercourse is not permitted even if
she bathes, because the return of blood is likely and this is unaffected by her
bathing before the completion of her regular days. However, she is to pray and
fast as a precautionary measure."


In sum, there are three scenarios arising from the time the blood stops. The first is
when the blood completely stops due to the woman reaching the maximum
duration for menses and postnatal bleeding. The second is when the blood stops
due to the woman completing her regular days; and this stoppage is short of the
maximum duration for menses and postnatal bleeding. The third is when the blood
stops short of her regular days.


Teall Oso ¢ pall oLuclly ald pats


A woman with menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding must repeat the days of
fasting she missed, not prayer. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said[We were
encountered with it(menses and postnatal bleeding)thereupon we were ordered
to make up fasting, but were not ordered to make up prayer]." The reason prayer
is not required to be made up is because after five days which is the average days
of menstrual periods, the prayers have become many and this entails great
difficulty if a woman were required to make up her prayers. Allah therefore eased
the matter and excused them from having to do so after their menstrual period.
With respect to fasting, it is something which comes only once a year and does not
pose difficulty in their makeup due to having the comfort of time before the
arrival of the next Ramadan.[Radd al-Muhtar states.| Menses prevents one from the attaining the status of purity(such as the pure state required for prayer), though there is no harm in undertaking a
bath for physical hygiene, such as the bath for hajj; and the Hanafi scholars did
not deem it unlawful. In-fact, they say it is recommended for the female to
perform wudu for the time of each prayer and sit upon her prayer mat and make
invocations and utter the shahada repeatedly according to what she is able so that
she does not forget her routine of prayer. And in one narration, it states that it is
written for her as the best prayer she used to offer. Moreover, menses prevents
i'tikaf and its validity; and if a woman begins her ¢ 'tikaf in a pure state, menses





" Hashia Ibn Abidin, vol ١/٤٩٠ - Beirut Second Edition, Dar al-Kutub alIlmiyya | AL
Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٥٢.
? Muslim, ٣٣٥.


١٠٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ruins it if interrupts her during this time. It prevents the necessary act of tawaf as-
Sadr and renders it forbidden for a man to divorce his wife therein, though if he
does, it takes affect. This is termed ¢alag bid. A female becomes mature as a result
of her menses and her waiting period['idda]is linked to her menses. With respect
to the expiation[kaffara]of murder or the expiation of fasting sixty days, menses
do not interrupt the days. However, this is contrary to the expiation of a broken
oath and the like. Furthermore, is it disliked for her to imitate the fasting or not?
The reply is that many of the scholars veered toward its dislike given that fasting
is unlawful; therefore, imitation of it is likewise. The remaining scholars opposed
this view saying that it is recommended for her to perform wudu and sit in the
place she offers prayer, which is imitation of prayer, then why not with fasting.'


Moreover, if a woman experiences her menstrual period prior to exiting Makkah
and did not offer tawaf al-Wada', then it is excused from her and nothing is
required of her unless she becomes pure prior to exiting the buildings of Makkah,
in which case she is to return and offer the tawaf.'


ult! el
That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Janaba(Sexual Impurity)'
lid oth ٤,


Five things are forbidden in a state of major impurity and they are;
ODN oye AT bel ٥٥ SLA
١- Prayer(as the Sacred law imposes the state of purity)."
٢- To recite a verse from the Holy Quran is forbidden in a state of sexual impurity[janaba]. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The one with
the menstrual bleeding and the one in the state of sexual impurity must not recite


anything of the Quran]," and this is the meaning agreed upon, in that one is not
permitted to recite Quran in such a state.


Sl phy tres yoy Gey VI gees


٣/٤/٥/ It is forbidden to touch the Quran unless it be with a covering. This is
because Allah said[None shall touch it except those who are pure]." It is also
unlawful to enter a mosque or to make tawaf around the holy ka'bah. To make





Radd al-Muhtar.

: Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٥١.

* Janaba lexically means "distance" and is used metaphorically in the case of someone who
is obliged to have a major bath(ghusl)because of sexual intercourse or nocturnal
emissions, which makes him distant from being able to approach acts of worship.

* Nisa ٤٣.

* Tbn Majah ٥٩٦.

° Al-Wagqi"ah ٧٩,


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٥





tawaf around the ka'bah is unlawful in the states of sexual impurity. This is owing
to the following: the tawaf(even if it is optional)is offered within the mosque and
purity is required therein. Likewise, tawaf is included in the meaning of prayer as
has been established in the sunna that the Prophet said, "Tawaf around the
House is like prayer, except that you may speak. So whoever speaks should speak
about that which is good."!


That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Minor Impurity(Hadath)Ll OW Saad feo ٥
Three things are forbidden in the state of minor impurity;
SL YY arcana y Oil ghally sal


Prayer, tawaf around the ka'bah and to touch the Quran without a covering is
unlawful as it is prohibited by Quranic text, even if it is a verse.


yaS> yd sll
Chronic Vaginal Discharge |Istihada]' and Its Ruling
yt GS sey gay Role La iy ely Vy be pe Vy dhe wes V pil le ٥ Lob p٢٥
Jilly ١A ye lyolt bay Oglny ٥p IS Cay by Shely


The blood of istthada(chronic vaginal discharge)is like that of a permanent nose
bleed. It does not prevent prayer, fasting, or intercourse. The one suffering from
chronic vaginal discharge is required to perform ablution at the time of each
obligatory prayer. The same applies for anyone who suffers a chronic condition('udthr), in that they must perform ablution at the time of every prayer, such as a
person who is unable to stop intermittent drops of urine or continually breaking
wind. Other conditions include a perpetual nose bleed or the constant flow of
blood from an injury. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said{The women with extended bleeding is to perform wudu for each prayer]. And
with this ablution, one may pray as many obligatory and optional prayers as he
likes, even if during the prayer he/she is bleeding, or unable to stop urine or wind
from exiting. Note: the term excused[ma'dhur]applies to a person who suffers
from a chronic ailment for a complete prayer time and is therefore unable to
maintain wudu for the time needed to offer the prayer. One is therefore excused
and permitted to offer the prayer even with the presence of the illness.


" Tirmidhi in the Chapter of Hajj ٩٦٠.[Maraky al-Falah ٩١).
* This is known medically as "dysfunctional uterine bleeding."
* bn Majah in his Sunan.


١٠٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Jsdall ¢ ٥٩٤ flay Ls


Nullification Of Wudu For One Deemed Excused
had ٢٥ SM oy Fu Gro sdalle sty fhny

The ablution of those who are excused(due to a chronic condition)is nullified
only when the time of the obligatory prayer ends,(for example: dhuAr time finishes
and 'asr enters. Hence, with the entry of the 'sy, the wudu is no longer valid).
Note: if a person is excused because of his chronic condition of breaking wind,
then even if this occurs during prayer, it does not invalidate it. However, if one
accidentally cuts himself and bleeds, then this breaks his wudu because the
exemption was based on one's chronic ailment, and not for other factors that
nullify wudu. Therefore, if one is excused because of a chronic ailment, then this
does not excuse other factors that are not chronic. Additionally; the time of fajr
ends when the sun rises and not at dhuhr time as some may imagine. Therefore, if
one is deemed excused at fajr time, his wudu breaks with the rising of the sun
according to Imams Abu Hanifa and Muhammad.


pial ٩٣ by
When Is One Deemed Excused
٤٥ yh b po Vag Beall y © yu ll patty plaid od pad Mel Ly pill ae gay go> ly sdee paar Vs


One is not deemed excused until he suffers from the illness for a full prayer time(for example, from dhuhr to 'asr)and in that time there is no let up from the illness
that would allow him enough time to perform ablution and offer the prayer. This
js the condition for its establishment.


pal else by ny
The Condition Required To Remain Excused
٨ gy ٥ we ٥٩ JS J ٠d gm ٩ S aelyo b oy
The condition which is required for a person to be deemed as having an ongoing
excuse is; the illness must occur in every prayer time after it has been established
even if it only occurs once. Meaning, if a person establishes that he has a chronic
ailment(which is to suffer from one's illness for a whole prayer time), then in


order for this person to receive a continuing exemption, he is required to
experience the illness at least once in every prayer time after this.


| The Condition That Nullifies One"s Exemplion
ae JolS ody gle Ny pda ٨S ٦ eee oy oy: eelhil bs


The condition that nullifies a person's exemption to offer prayer in this state — is
the absence of the illness for a complete prayer time, for example; from dhuhr to
gsr, one does not experience his illness, meaning they are no longer regarded as
excused and are therefore subject to normal procedures.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٧


Wye a jlgblly ples Yi ob
The Chapter Of Najasa(Filth)And Its Purification


The chapter of najasa is divided into two categories. The first is the real or true
najasa |najasa hagigiyya|, which is referred to as khubth(meaning repugnant or foul).
This is known as all things whose essence or substance is legally regarded impure
and filthy, such as urine, wine, flowing blood, stool, pus and vomit that is a
mouthful.' The second type is the legal najasa(najasa hukmiyya|, referred to as
hadath, which is an attribute that the law applies upon unclean limbs. That is, it is
either minor or major impurity.


doled! oLil
The Types Of Filth[Najasa]daar y ale ned S]bel as
Filth is divided into two types: heavy and light.
dads! el oy dei
Examples of heavy filth
Upcldy Elanall ase ay AS pani y sod JS VOI py lelaly St ty ce piedl pally HIS deLIU
OLS Ody oye dry Pure pd sll ats ey Syl y baly cleo >


Heavy filth includes things like alcohol, flowing blood,' the meat of a dead anima
and its hide(skin),* the urine of animals whose meat is unlawful such as a human
fox or wolf, the dung of a dog as well as the dung of a predatory animal and it:
saliva, the droppings of a chicken, duck or swan, and whatever discharges from :
person's body which nullifies wudu, such as flowing blood, sperm, madhi(pre
cum), menstrual period, postnatal bleeding and vomit that is a mouthful and s
on.


" Nur al-Idah ٦٢.


? The meaning of flowing blood in this point is blood that flows from its original place t
another location which then requires purification. The blood which pours forth from
slaughtered animal is deemed impure as Allah the Exalted mentioned in the Quran[or bloo
poured forth](Quran ٦:١٤٥). Though the little trace of blood which remains on the meat is put
as well as that which remains in its veins, liver, and spleen. The blood that exits one's body, bt
does not flow from its place is pure according to the correct view(for this does not nullify one
wudu). Likewise, the blood of the flea, lice and ant is deemed pure even if it was a large amoun
The blood of the fish and the blood of the martyr are also deemed pure.(Maraky al-Falah ٩٥).
> That is, animals that have blood flowing through their body. This however excludes fis
grasshoppers, and animals that do not have blood flowing through their body.


١٠٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


teal Lt - aul
Examples of light filth
SS٥Y po ety ed[Spl Sp liSy lly Sb daadi Ul,


As for light filth, it includes the urine of a horse because its meat is permitted to
eat even though it is disliked. However, Imam Muhammad held its meat as pure."
The urine of an animal whose meat is lawful to eat such as a sheep, and the
droppings of birds that are not lawful to eat such as a falcon, hawk and eagle.(Refer to table ١ and ٢ at the end of the chapter). Al-Hidayah, one of the main
Hanafi texts mentions that if one's clothes are soiled by the urine of a horse, then
it does not affect its purity, unless it is excessive according to Abu Hanifa and
Abu Yusuf. This degree of excessiveness is clarified under the next heading.
Muhammad on the other hand held that it does not prevent prayer even if it is
excessive.


Additionally, if one's dress is soiled by the droppings of birds whose meat is
unlawful, to the extent that the soiled area exceeds the size of a dirham, then
prayer is permitted in it. Imam Muhammad held that it is not permissible because
there is no necessity due to the absence of these birds in human habitations. Abu
Yusuf argued that they send their droppings from the air and it is difficult to take
preventative measures against this, hence, the necessity is established.'


op ٤F an
The Degree Of Filth That Is Excused
Rac ye GIS gh Syl gy ٠٩٢ boys Madall ops pm All jad of ity
Regarding heavy filth, the size of a dirham is excused.' The reason this is exempt


is because it is not possible to avoid a little impurity and it is therefore excused.
And the estimation of this unavoidable impurity is up to the size of a dirham. If
however, the amount exceeds this, it is not exempt. Light filth which has afflicted
less than one quarter of one's dress or body, is excused, though if it reaches one
quarter, it is not. If it is asked - as to which item of clothing does one measure the quarter?
The response is that it has been said that the minimum clothing a person can pray
in, is that which covers his private area(i.e. from the navel to the bottom of the
knees). Therefore, if light filth afflicts a person's clothes such as on the sleeve,
pants and bottom, and this amount equals to a quarter of the minimum clothing
for prayer or exceeds it, then it is not excused, though if it is less, it is pardoned.


" Maraky al-Falah ٩٦.
* Al-Hidayah ٣٨.
* Imam Zufar and Imam Shafi' said that such things are impure, whether it is more or less


because the text of law has not made a distinction. The Hanafi position is that a little impurity
is unable to avoid and is therefore pardoned.(Al-Hidayah).


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٩


WY ٩٥ SI Hey oF ses


Likewise, the specks of urine such as that of the head of the pin are excused even
if they come onto one's dress and body. The reason this is the case is because one
cannot prevent this most of the time.


WOVE ye Lege pally QA gf elet AT gb eth fl gl tl Soe op Obes OI I ALS bel Sy


If a bed or soil that has previously been stained by filth, becomes wet because of
the sweat of one who slept on it or because of one's wet feet upon the soil, and as
a result the trace of filth appears on the body or feet, then both are regarded as
impure. If the trace of filth does not appear on the body or feet, then they are not
regarded as impure. The traces of filth are colour, smell, and taste. For example,
if the mattress of a bed that was previously stained by urine became wet due to
the sweat of the person who slept on it, then it is deemed impure if the filth
appears on one's body or clothes. The same rule applies to soil that has previously
been stained by filth and then becomes wet due to the wet feet of a person.


ree Sob NM pas Vib; pe GD ple dk Oy rs VIS


Likewise, a dry clean cloth does not become impure when wrapped in a filthy damp
cloth which does not drip when it is squeezed. The dry cloth remains clean
because the actual substance of the filth cannot separate onto the clean one since
nothing drips from it if it is pressed. For example; a damp unclean sweater that does
not drip any water if it is squeezed is accidentally placed among clothes that are
clean and dry. An unaware person then wraps the filthy sweater with the dry clean
clothes. The result is—the dry clean clothes are not regarded as impure with such a
thing. |
oe ٣ Lob Las ٥٥ Joe py bys pee Vy


A wet cloth does not become impure if it is spread out on dry unclean soil such as
dried urine, and the earth has become damp through the wetness of the cloth. For
example, someone urinated on the ground and an hour later it dries up. One then
comes along and spreads out his wet jumper on this ground where this person had
urinated. He does exactly that, and as a result the ground becomes wet because of
the jumper. Consequently, the jumper remains pure unless some trace of filth
appears on the jumper.


a٣ I gy OY]o Sool Obs Joc wy Vy


Furthermore, a cloth does not become impure if it has been struck by a wind that
has blown over some filth, unless the filth becomes visible on the clothes. In other
words, if a wind blows over some filth and thereafter blows over items of clothing
or the like, the clothes are not deemed filthy or impure unless the filth is evident
on the items.


" See table ٣ at the end of this chapter.


١١٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Purification Of The Filth
Ally Gab pl el pas Vy ermal fe ayes gly lpr Shy Ai Seley mcs glans


Visible filth(even if it is heavy)is purified by removing the actual filth itself even
if this is achieved by washing it once. This is the correct view according to Abu
Hanifa. If its removal is difficult, there is no harm if some trace remains, such as
colour or smell. And this degree of difficulty is achieved when one is required to
resort to other than water for the removal of the impurity such as soap. In
summary, washing is not a stipulation after the substance has been removed.
'There are however, many opinions on that which can be removed by one washing
and that which cannot."


By NS pally UW ia is Ms,


If the filth is invisible, it is to be washed three times and wrung after each wash.
Washing the invisible filth three times is obligatory. Though, according to Imam
Shafi'i it is compulsory to wash seven times, and one of the times with soil for the
filth of the dog.


٣ yl gb ples
Liquid Purifiers
os Qeoleg JAS eye Sle IS UL Sadly GI ٣٦ dale ry


Filth[najasa]is purified from the body and clothes with water or any liquid that


removes filth, such as vinegar and rose water.
db CIS hy ٠ oe oles ope Wb ory att gl y


The footgear and the like are purified by rubbing them on the ground or soil
provided the filth is in a solid form even if it is moist. The majority of the scholars
hold this view. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said, "If anyone
stepped on something of harm with his khuf, then the purification of that is soil,"
and the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said, "If one arrives at the
mosque then he should observe his khuf, if he sees upon his khuf, something of
harm or filth, then he should wipe(rub)them and pray with them." Al-Hidayah
maintains the following[In the case of it being moist, it is not permitted until the
boot is washed]for the reason that rubbing on the soil will increase it and not
purify it. However, Abu Yusuf held that if he rubs it on the soil until no effect of
impurity remains, it is deemed pure."


Al-Hidayah ٣٨.
? Abu Dawud ٣٨٥ and ٦٥٠.
° Al-Hidayah ٧١.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ١١]Tebh ops y tt ghey


Swords and the like, such as metal objects are purified by wiping them either in
soil or with a cloth because in this situation, the filth cannot penetrate. The
Companions(God be pleased with them all)would kill a disbeliever with their
swords, and then wipe them and pray.


ges encall ٠.٩٢ Upcle Ballo jle Gir y G٢)ye Ube plead lily


When the traces of filth disappear from the ground, such as the colour and smell
of urine, and the ground becomes dry, prayer is permitted on that very ground.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Any ground which is
dry, then verily it is pure]. However, tayammum is not permissible from that
ground because from what is determined is that the ground must be pure with
respect to itself and purifying for other things, as commanded by God[Perform
tayammum with clean sand or earth]," and this soil is pure with respect to itself,
but is not purifying for other things and for this reason one cannot perform
tayammum with this earth.


dilime SUIS y pt gel: be play


Likewise, what is upon the earth such as trees(plants)and standing grass become
pure from filth upon drying.


WG ٥ fol gh A be ols Gre SL ILL phi,


Filth is purified when its essence(that is, its substance or structure)molecularly
transforms into something else, such as a pig becoming salt, dust or soap or fire
has turned it into ash. Another example is wine turning into vinegar. This means
that the essence of the thing is no longer in its original form.


abn; de JN pgleny OAS y SI ye ٤S ey GUN ll pple


Sperm[mani]which has become dry is purified by scratching it off the clothes and
body, even if it is the discharge of a female. And wet sperm is purified by washing
it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Wash it if it is wet
and rub it if it is dry].? Imam Shafi'i held that sperm is pure. However, this is
contrary to the proof Abu Hanifa adopted; namely, the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[The dress is washed due to five things.]and among
them he mentioned Mani(sperm)}."





" Al-Maida ٦.
: Darqutani, ١/١٢٥.
٣ Darqutani. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٢١٠. Al-Hidayah, ٧١.}! BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Ua priy EM de Bly Gb Jead
Purifying The Hide(Skin)Of A Dead Animal
Vy ٢ DH ale VI meets Se IS ASL y ob WS Ratt ELL EM Ube pple


Th hide(skin)of a dead animal(including that of the dog)is purified via true
taxing.' This can be achieved by using karadh(which are pods of the mimosa
plat that are used to remove the foul smell and dampness and keep it from
rusing. Salt and the peel extracts of oranges are also common in this process), or
thhide may be tanned by something that has the same legal status as true
taming, such as cleansing the hide with soil or placing it in the sun. The Prophet((G@d bless him and grant him peace))said, "Hide which has been tanned is
pur." The hide of a pig however, does not become pure by any means of
taming. The same applies to the skin of a human due to its dignity.


٤ pe real fo aad ٠٥٢ A SU pe tle Le AISI! gles y


The hide of an animal whose meat is unlawful is purified if it is slaughtered in
acordance with Islamic Law, whilst the meat remains unlawful, and this is the
conect view which the fatwa coincides with. One must keep in mind that this rule
exudes the pig. This means that the skin of an unlawful animal is purified
witout requiring the process of tanning provided it is slaughtered in the way
Ishm prescribed(though the meat remains unlawful).


Threfore, if the animal is dead, its skin is purified by true tanning or something
ofiimilar legal status. Additionally, if the animal whose meat is not lawful is
slaghtered in accordance with Islamic law, the skin is rendered pure, while the
mat :s not. The slaughtering in effect compensates for the tanning.


ps bbe shanty SIAN Oily ٥٩ pred a My pratt bl nme Y pl ad ss Vepgt So
tena J wen waslls :


Allother parts of the animal which blood does not flow through is regarded as
pur such as the hair and feathers that have separated from the animal, including
thehorns, hoofs and bones that contain no fatty grease. However, the nerves are
impure according to the soundest view.


SMe ast, GLAS ٣ lb ALM daly


" Thevord tanned or tanning is to make an animal's skin into leather by treating it with
ctenicals. A tanner is the word used for a person who does this.(Oxford dictionary).
? A:Tsmidhi, the Book of Purification(The Tanned Hide of a Dead Animal)١٧٢٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١١٣


Also, the skin that contains the musk is pure including the musk itself and it is
permissible to eat. This musk(or perfume)is found in the body of a deer, gazelle,
and antelope." The author added the permissibility of eating the musk because
there are many things which are regarded as pure, but they are not permitted to
eat such as soil. So he clarified the verdict in regards to eating the musk.


٤ Cagle Be cena lb ob ily


Civet is deemed pure. Civet is a strong smelling yellow substance secreted by a
civet cat and is used in the making of perfume. This substance, which is foam or
froth, is taken from a pouch under the tails of male and female civet cats. A civet
cat is a small spotted and stripped carnivorous mammal found in Asia and Africa.
Civet has a very strong smell and its scent is similar to musk, but has a more
smoky, sweaty aroma. It is permitted for one to pray whilst he is perfumed in it
for the reason that it has undergone transformation into an aroma. This is similar
to the musk found in a gazelle. And something that has undergone
transformation is regarded pure."


Table ١ Faecal matter
from birds





Non-edible birds Edible birds(non-permissible)Such as a pigeon,
such as an eagle and sparrow & chicken
hawk


Flying birds Flying birds Non-flying birds


Such as an eagle and Non-flying birds Such as pigeon and Such as turkey and
hawk Sparrow chicken


Light filth Heavy filth Heavy filth





" Language of Jurisprudence, Maraky al-Falah ١٠٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ١٠٣.


١١٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION









Table ٢






Predatory Animals -
Such as a fox, wolf and lion.






Nen-Predatory Animals
Such as sheep.


Table ٣










A clean dry cloth which is
wrapped inside a damp
filthy cloth







If the filthy cloth would drip
when squeezed, then the
clean cloth is deemed filthy
if a trace becomes evident. If
not, then not.















If both would not drip when
wrung, then the clean cloth


remains pure


If water can be squeezed out
of both, then both are
deemed filthy.







its


The Chapter
of Prayer


Alsuatld plas ape yacCd play asl ya It dl aah,


SS)praennaenoen ns


١١٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





Book II: Prayer
CONTENTS:


The Chapter Of Prayer
Conditions That Obligate Prayer
The Reason Which Obligates Prayer
The Times Of The Obligatory Prayers
Not Joining Two Prayers In The One Time
Recommended Prayer Times
The Prohibited And Disliked Prayer Times


The Chapter Of Adhan(The Call To Prayer)The Ruling Of The Call To Prayer And The Call To Commence
The Sayings Of The Adhan And Iqama
Recommended Actions For The Caller
That Which Is disliked In The Adhan And Iqama
Calling The Adhan And Iqama For Missed Prayers
What The Listener Should Say


Conditions Of Prayer And Its Pillars
That Which Is Required For The Validity Of Prayer
The Pillars Of Prayer
Conditions Of Prayer
Branches Associated With The Conditions Of Prayer
That Which Is Associated With The Condition Of Purity
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Covering One's Nakedness
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Facing Qibla
The Wajib Elements Of Prayer
The Sunan Of Prayer
The Etiquette Of Prayer
How The Prayer Is Performed


The Imamate
Its Rank And Ruling
Conditions That Validate The Position Of Imam
Conditions that Validate The Following Of The Imam
When The Follower Is Better Conditioned Than The Imam
Exemptions From The Congregational Prayer
The Most Entitled To Be Imam And The Etiquette Of The Lines
The Imamate That Is Disliked
The Position Of The Follower
The Manner Of The Lines
What The Follower Is To Do After The Imam Completes A Pillar
Remembrance After The Prescribed Prayer


١٢١
١٢١
١٢٢
١٢٢


١٢٥
١٢٧


١٣١
١٣١
١٣٢
١٣٣
١٣٤
١٣٥
١٣٥


١٣٦
١٣٦
١٤٢
١٤٣
١٤٣
١٤٣
١٤٤
١٤٦
١٤٧
١٥١
١٥٩
١٦٠


١٦٥
١٦٥
١٦٥
١٦٦
١٦٨
١٧٠
١٧١
١٧٣
١٧٥
١٧٥
١٧٦
١٧٧

