١٠٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Jsdall ¢ ٥٩٤ flay Ls


Nullification Of Wudu For One Deemed Excused
had ٢٥ SM oy Fu Gro sdalle sty fhny

The ablution of those who are excused(due to a chronic condition)is nullified
only when the time of the obligatory prayer ends,(for example: dhuAr time finishes
and 'asr enters. Hence, with the entry of the 'sy, the wudu is no longer valid).
Note: if a person is excused because of his chronic condition of breaking wind,
then even if this occurs during prayer, it does not invalidate it. However, if one
accidentally cuts himself and bleeds, then this breaks his wudu because the
exemption was based on one's chronic ailment, and not for other factors that
nullify wudu. Therefore, if one is excused because of a chronic ailment, then this
does not excuse other factors that are not chronic. Additionally; the time of fajr
ends when the sun rises and not at dhuhr time as some may imagine. Therefore, if
one is deemed excused at fajr time, his wudu breaks with the rising of the sun
according to Imams Abu Hanifa and Muhammad.


pial ٩٣ by
When Is One Deemed Excused
٤٥ yh b po Vag Beall y © yu ll patty plaid od pad Mel Ly pill ae gay go> ly sdee paar Vs


One is not deemed excused until he suffers from the illness for a full prayer time(for example, from dhuhr to 'asr)and in that time there is no let up from the illness
that would allow him enough time to perform ablution and offer the prayer. This
js the condition for its establishment.


pal else by ny
The Condition Required To Remain Excused
٨ gy ٥ we ٥٩ JS J ٠d gm ٩ S aelyo b oy
The condition which is required for a person to be deemed as having an ongoing
excuse is; the illness must occur in every prayer time after it has been established
even if it only occurs once. Meaning, if a person establishes that he has a chronic
ailment(which is to suffer from one's illness for a whole prayer time), then in


order for this person to receive a continuing exemption, he is required to
experience the illness at least once in every prayer time after this.


| The Condition That Nullifies One"s Exemplion
ae JolS ody gle Ny pda ٨S ٦ eee oy oy: eelhil bs


The condition that nullifies a person's exemption to offer prayer in this state — is
the absence of the illness for a complete prayer time, for example; from dhuhr to
gsr, one does not experience his illness, meaning they are no longer regarded as
excused and are therefore subject to normal procedures.

