BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨٥


There are also other aspects to consider in relation to the nullification of
tayammum. The first case is that the person in the state of tayammum sees water
prior to offering the prayer, in which case the tayammum becomes void. The second
case relates to one who sees water during prayer, in which case the Hanafis hold
that the sighting of water during prayer invalidates it given that purification has
ended. Shafi'i holds that the tayammum does not become invalid after one has
entered the prayer because the prayer has been called for and entered and
because Allah states[Do not terminate your deeds]." The third case pertains to one
who sees water after the completion of prayer. If one sees water after the time for
the prayer has ended, then one is not to repeat his prayer, and there is no
disagreement concerning this. Though if one sees it prior to the end of the prayer
time, then one is not to repeat his prayer according to the majority of jurists with
the exception of the Maliki Madhhab.'


cbr My cats)& phate O١٥ ١٣}ce ١ Se
The Ruling Of The Wounded With No Hands Or Feet
tee V٩ Bylgb pry heey S| > ager ٩ O"S ١٣]Ogle Sy Gristl ¢ phi,


The one who has no hands and no feet and suffers from a wound upon his face, is
permitted to pray without purification and does not need to repeat prayer(and
this is the soundest view). Furthermore, Ibn Abidin states: The restricted or
limited person who does not possess the two purificatory elements[at-Tahurain};
namely, water or clean earth in that they are constrained to an unclean place and
unable to extract clean earth; or it may be that one's illness prevents one from
seeking water or clean earth, then prayer is delayed according to Abu Hanifa
while the two companions held that one is to resemble and imitate those that pray
and that this is wajib. So one is to bow and prostrate facing the qgibla without
reciting Quran regardless if one is a state of minor or sexual impurity; this is
provided one finds a dry area. If not, then one may offer the prayer through
indication(ie. nodding)while standing. However, this resemblance does not
remove the obligation of offering the obligatory prayer and the prayer must be
repeated when one acquires water or clean earth. This case is similar to that of a
fasting person. For example, when a woman with menses becomes clean during
the day in Ramadan; she is required to abstain from eating the remainder of the
day resembling those who fast and make up the day later. The legal ruling on the
matter has been issued in accordance with this view, and Abu Hanifa later
reversed his decision in accordance with this view(regarding imitation).


Likewise, the one with no hands or feet and with an injury upon the face is to pray
without purification and is not to perform tayammum and is not to repeat the
prayer. If one has no injury upon his face, then he is to wipe it in clean earth if he


" Muhammad ٣٣.
? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٣.


٨٦ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


cannot wash it. Therefore, this ruling differs to the ruling above; in that one who
is unable to find the two purificatory elements(that is, water or clean earth)due to
an illness is required to delay it or resemble those who pray as mentioned
previously and make up the prayer later."!


٢,
"~~


°
oe
°,
"~~


Od! fe abl Ob


Wiping The Footgear(Khuffain)The wiping of the footgear' has been established by the Prophet's sayings and
actions((God bless him and grant him peace)). Scholars have mentioned that it
was sanctioned in the ٩" year of Hijra and there has been a vast deal of narrations
on the matter. From these narrations is what Ibn Khuzayma and Ibn Habban
relate; that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))permitted those
travelling to wipe for three days and three nights, and for the non-traveller - one
day and one night, provided one purified himself and then wore the khuf.
Likewise, it is related from Hassan al-Basri that he said, "J was told by seventy
Companions that the Prophet wiped his khuf, and it is the heart of the sunna, and that the
greatest in merit are the two 'Amrayn', and that(one must)love the Khatanan and that it is
permissible to wipe the khuf." The 'Amrayn' are Abu Bakr and Umar(may Allah be
pleased with them). And the Khatanan are Al-Hasan and al-Husain, the sons of
Ali Ibn Abi Talib(may Allah be pleased with them). Abu Hanifa said that
because this news of wiping the footgear has reached us by way of tawatur(uninterrupted transmission in large numbers), then he fears that one who denies
its permissibility has committed disbelief.'


" Ibn Abidin.

* The footgear typically worn by Muslims are ankle-high leather socks that are worn inside
the shoes. Muslims are permitted to wipe the footgear instead of washing the feet for
wudu. Additionally, the term kAuffain is the dual of kAuf.

* AHkhtiyar.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٨٧


AE Jo cemall Sm
The Ruli: Witing The Khuffain(Footgear,
WS el yew MLN ab ndF ep gd pe WIS gS ycLitly Sle U ee Sad bonito ll re
Y lake o old
It is valid for both men and woman to wipe the khuf(footgear)to obtain


cleanliness from the state of minor impurity," even if the wiping is on something
thick other than leather,' and it is the same if the sole is made of leather or not.


col ily bap
Conditions That Permit The Wiping
bby po tae idl Jo moll ht bis
Seven conditions are required to validate the wiping:
oy gh)AU Spam JF afl Ite ys SOLS fo gly one It pee te ed UI


١- The first requires that they be worn after washing the feet. It is permissible to
wear the khuf even before completing wudu, provided the person completes the
wudu before the occurrence of anything that invalidates it. For example, if a
person begins wudu by washing his feet, wears the khuf, and then breaks wind
before the completion of wudu, the wiping of the khuf is ruined and one must re-
do the process.


aS LA pes Gly
٢- They must cover the feet up to(and including)the ankles.
atom ght sh cle ٥ cp it Le jy We ٤d gill duke ١%]: Sut,


٣- One must be able to continuously walk in them.' It is not permissible for one to
wipe on footgear that have been made from glass, wood or steel.





" One is not permitted to wipe his footgear to acquire cleanliness from major impurity.

: Maraky alFalah states several examples of things other than leather such as /ukh(a thick
cloth)and Kirbaas(which is a thick type of cotton). The definition of Kirbaas is derived from the
dictionary of Legal terms(Masbah al-Munir ٢٧٣). In any case, these feet coverings must hold to
the feet without being tied and they must not absorb water to the skin according to Muhammad
and Abu Yusuf. This is also the saying of Abu Hanifa and the fatwa issued is in accordance
with this view.

٣ It must be possible to continuously walk in khufs for a distant of one farsakh(which is three
miles and more)according to the Hanafis. Given this, it is not permissible to wipe on footgear
that will tear with walking and neither on footgear that is not possible to walk in due to its
weight, such as footgear made from metal and so forth.[Ibn Abidin ١/١٣٩}.

