BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٣


٥- After washing a dead body. Note: The scholars disagreed on this point and
point four, but in order to remove oneself from the differences of the scholars, one
is recommended to perform ghusl in these circumstances. The Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))would perform the major bath from four things: janaba(sexual impurity), the Friday prayer, Aijamah(cupping)and from washing a
deceased. "


iol» AL ٥


٦- On the night of Bara-ah(Immunity). This night occurs in the middle of the
month of Sha'ban.


Lal ١٥]jaa als,


٧- It is recommended on the night of Qadr(Power)if one witnesses it or realises it
through the knowledge transmitted. From its signs are that it is bright, neither hot
or cold and at the break of dawn, the sun rises without rays. It occurs on an odd
day in the last ten days of Ramadan from the ٢١* to the ٢٩". This being the case,
it is desirable to spend the last ten nights of Ramadan in worship as the Prophet
did until he passed((God bless him and grant him peace)).


peg ae ail oo pil Ue tte J ely


٨- Upon entering the Madina of the Holy Prophet, it is recommended to bath due
to the high status it has been given, and due to arriving in the Prophet"s presence((God bless him and grant him peace)).


posle pls dds p٣٨ ys


٩- It is recommended for the standing in Muzdalifah at dawn time on the day of
Sacrifice(which is the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah)١٠- When entering Makkah for Tawaf azZtyarah(a pillar of hajj), it is
recommended to perform the major bath. This also applies for tawaf in general,
for the reason that a person should perform the tawaf with complete purity.'(lege ee dae la atl Gb pect y pretI)Ab ped Sua y


١١/١٢- For the prayer of a solar and lunar eclipse, it is a desirable and
recommended practice.


olanaul y


١٣- When seeking rain. This is essentially seeking forgiveness from Allah, and the
prayer or request is to be performed in utmost purity.


" Abu Dawud ٣٤٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٦٩.


١٤ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION





Beh py ٩ Lal y ٦٥٣(ye eal)١٤/١٥/١٦- It is recommended for the prayer arising from fear, overwhelming
darkness in the day or due to the presence of strong wind, whether it occurs at
night or in the day because Allah has ruined nations such as the nation of Ad with
destructive wind. It is also recommended when one has repented from his sins
and when returning from travel. It is also recommended to perform the major
bath when one has been struck with filth[najasa]and its location or spot is hidden,
in which case one it is recommended to wash his entire body and clothes as a
precaution. !


٢,
Oo Me ©,


posit
Tayammum


Lexically, tayammum means "purpose and intention." According to the scholars of
jurisprudence, tayammum is the wiping of the face and hands on soil which is pure.
Tayammum is something specifically for Islam that was not introduced in any
Previous laws before it. The proof for its legality is Allah's saying[And if you find
no water, then take for yourselves clean sand or earth and rub therewith your faces and hands.
Allah does not wish to place you in difficulty? This proof indicates the ease of the
religion; for previous to this in the earlier religions prior to Islam, one's
responsibility entailed many instances of hardship that could not be tolerated
except one whose intent was resolved in achieving its target. However, with the
advent of Islam came teachings that would not disconnect the servant from his
and leave in him disconnected from the Lord of mankind. Allah says[On no soul
does God place a burden greater than it can bear].° Elsewhere, He says[Our Lord!
Lay not on us a burden greater than we have the strength to bear].*


Indeed, the act of prayer, touching the Quran, tawaf and similar examples are
acts of worship that cannot be valid without wudu. However, the Sacred Law
allowed tayammum as a substitute for water during its absence or when one is
unable to use the water. This was done so that the servant would not be barred
from undertaking in the acts of worship or receiving its benefit and reward.'





Maraky al-Falah ٦٩.
Al-Maida ٧.
: Quran ٢:٢٨٦.
Quran ٢:٢٨٦. |Nur al-Idah ٤٤.
Al-Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٤.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٧٥


anv b ٣ rf
Conditions That Validate Tayammum


ES by ha pacll aay
There are eight conditions that one must fulfil;
ay pence Le fe ok pb Ae Ugh yy frill fo dill aie dtm y QIN: Uy

١- The first condition that validates tayammum is the intention; and its reality is
to have a firm resolve in the heart upon the action. The time for the intention is
when one places his hands upon the substance he intends to make tayammum
with. Note: the reason the intention is conditional in tayammum as opposed to
wudu is because the essence of the soil is physically unclean and is not deemed a
purifier for other things except it times of necessity. Therefore, if one wipes his
face with sand for example, he will not distinguish whether it is unclean or
purifying except by his intention. In other words, the soil does not act as a purifier
except with an intention. It is therefore conditional for the performance of
tayammum. In relation to wudu, it is valid without an intention because the
essence of the water is pure; and is purifying for other things. It was created as a
purifier, though this is not the case with soil." Note: the stipulation of an intention
is agreed upon according to all four jurists except Zufar the student of Abu
Hanifa. Zufar held that it is not obligatory because it is a substitute for wudu and
should not contradict its attributes.


Ar le balls jerodlls pA YI: BW aI de by ٥
- There are three conditions that validate the intention:
a)that one be Muslim. Tayammum is not applicable to non-believers.


b)that one possess the ability to differentiate and discriminate so that he
comprehends what he says. This condition entails one's sanity.


c)that one have knowledge of what he intends.
elo sole Da Sd bits


To validate one's intention of tayammum for ritual prayer, it is
conditional to satisfy one of three things,


٥ tga ٤٥ |


I)that one intends purification from his unclean state. This means that to intend
purification alone suffices for prayer, since purity is legally the key to prayer and
it is a condition that validates prayer. And even if one is in a state of janaba(major ritual impurity), intending purification alone suffices.


" Maraky al-Falah ٧١ | Nur al-Idah ٤٤.

