١٠٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ruins it if interrupts her during this time. It prevents the necessary act of tawaf as-
Sadr and renders it forbidden for a man to divorce his wife therein, though if he
does, it takes affect. This is termed ¢alag bid. A female becomes mature as a result
of her menses and her waiting period['idda]is linked to her menses. With respect
to the expiation[kaffara]of murder or the expiation of fasting sixty days, menses
do not interrupt the days. However, this is contrary to the expiation of a broken
oath and the like. Furthermore, is it disliked for her to imitate the fasting or not?
The reply is that many of the scholars veered toward its dislike given that fasting
is unlawful; therefore, imitation of it is likewise. The remaining scholars opposed
this view saying that it is recommended for her to perform wudu and sit in the
place she offers prayer, which is imitation of prayer, then why not with fasting.'


Moreover, if a woman experiences her menstrual period prior to exiting Makkah
and did not offer tawaf al-Wada', then it is excused from her and nothing is
required of her unless she becomes pure prior to exiting the buildings of Makkah,
in which case she is to return and offer the tawaf.'


ult! el
That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Janaba(Sexual Impurity)'
lid oth ٤,


Five things are forbidden in a state of major impurity and they are;
ODN oye AT bel ٥٥ SLA
١- Prayer(as the Sacred law imposes the state of purity)."
٢- To recite a verse from the Holy Quran is forbidden in a state of sexual impurity[janaba]. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The one with
the menstrual bleeding and the one in the state of sexual impurity must not recite


anything of the Quran]," and this is the meaning agreed upon, in that one is not
permitted to recite Quran in such a state.


Sl phy tres yoy Gey VI gees


٣/٤/٥/ It is forbidden to touch the Quran unless it be with a covering. This is
because Allah said[None shall touch it except those who are pure]." It is also
unlawful to enter a mosque or to make tawaf around the holy ka'bah. To make





Radd al-Muhtar.

: Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٥١.

* Janaba lexically means "distance" and is used metaphorically in the case of someone who
is obliged to have a major bath(ghusl)because of sexual intercourse or nocturnal
emissions, which makes him distant from being able to approach acts of worship.

* Nisa ٤٣.

* Tbn Majah ٥٩٦.

° Al-Wagqi"ah ٧٩,

