٦٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Leb)Sur cp Bll]day Lee a flog


٥- If a person finds the presence of wetness after regaining consciousness or after
recovering from intoxication and believes it to be sperm, then he is required to
undertake the major bath.


ules ٤>u٩


٦-٧- When a female's menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding ends, it is
compulsory for her to perform the major bath.


ee SpE fb gS! sLeViclam ٥S,


And even if the aforementioned things(such as menses or seminal discharge)occurs prior to becoming a Muslim, one must still perform the major bath after
embracing Islam and this is the correct view. The reason being is that the trait of
major impurity[janaba]remains even after becoming Muslim, and it is not
possible to meet the conditions of prayer or the funeral prayer, the prostration of
recitation or the touching of Quran unless the major bath is performed. Hence, it
is obligatory to perform it given that one is Muslim and required to be pure when
he wants to pray or perform other acts of worship that require purity, as Allah
mentioned in the verse of wudu. If however, one becomes Muslim, though was
not in a state of major impurity when he was an unbeliever, then the major bath is
recommended upon becoming Muslim."


GUS oN as ٦ piss
It is a communal obligation[fard kifaya]to bath a deceased Muslim. If however no
one performs this task, then the sin falls upon the entire community.
That Which Does Not Obligate The Major Bath
Lge pecs Volt a ne
There are ten things a person is not required to perform the major bath from:
$٢٣٣ Ste


١- Madhi(non-sperm male discharge also known as Cowper"s fluid - which is the
name of the gland from which the fluid originates; and known in general terms as
pre-cum). It is a white, thin, sticky fluid that is released from a man's penis when
he is aroused. The fluid is released long before man reaches an orgasm. Such
arousal is due to passionate or romantic play or kissing. Moreover, the fluid that
exits from a female due to amorous play is termed kadhi.'


" Maraky al-Falah ٦١ / Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim al-Silkini ١٠٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ٦٠, ft-٤.

