٤٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ly em ails


The fourth pillar is to wipe a quarter of the head as the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))wiped the front of his head."


+٦ Som
The Reason For Wudu
BV Ga: oy FV Seg ug yt Se pay VW[EV Gall ey


Its reason is to make lawful those actions that cannot be valid except with wudu.
This is its ruling pertaining to this life, while in the hereafter; it is the attainment
of rewards.


٧٢ Nora by
Conditions Which Obligate Wudu
CALs & sll y fist yey b pty


The conditions that render wudu obligatory are sanity, maturity, and Islam. Note:
the immature and insane person are not subject to the commands of the Sacred
law. A'ishah related that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said
"The pen has been lifted from three; "A sleeping man, until he wakes; an
immature person until he attains maturity and an insane person until he is
restored to his senses."" Likewise, if one is not Muslim, he is not subject to the
Sacred law with respect to prayer. Additionally, maturity is attained when one
experiences a dream of a sexual nature. Though if this does not occur, then one
Hanafi view maintains that he attains maturity at the age of fifteen years as is the
opinion of the two disciples(Abu Yusuf and Muhammad)as well as Imam Shafi'i
and Ahmad. Another Hanafi view maintains that it is at eighteen years, as is the
view of Ibn Abbas. However, the fatwa issued on the matter is according to the
view of the two disciples.°


ISI ell Jl arul ae ٨ AS ٩


Additionally, one must have the ability to use a sufficient amount of water to
wash the required limbs at least once. Note: not having water or needing it due to
a necessity negates one's ability; for there is no ability unless there is water. In
addition, having the ability means to have a sufficient amount for wudu. If one does
not possess this quantity, then it is like one who does not have water.
Furthermore, if one has water but has no rope by which to extract it from a well,
then he is not legally able to use the water.


" An-Nasai, Muslim-The Book of Purification ٢٧٥.
* Ibn Majah ٢٠٤١.
* Rawai"ul Bayan, Shaykh Muhammad Ali Sabuni ٢٠٠.

