٣٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Bye oF go ht Vol gl BU e ٢ ONY]dy Sy Jt pol pS pa Vy


The water of the well is not made impure with the dung of camels, sheep,
horses, mules, donkeys and cows etc., unless a large amount is visible or
unless there is a situation that in every bucket, there is dung present in which
case all the water is to be withdrawn.
pynasy eles su lll ia Vy

Likewise, the droppings of pigeons or sparrows do not ruin the well-water, i.e. the
birds that are lawful to eat, because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))thanked the pigeon and said[Verily, it nested on the door of the cave until
I was safe, and may Allah reward it with the masjid as its home]." And Ibn Mas'ud
wiped away the droppings of a bird with his hand. This is the opted view in many


of the Hanafi books. The dispute between the scholars pertains to the droppings
of birds that are not lawful for consumption.'


Al ٩ ٩٥٣٩ LI Gry lll Ol yoy FAts y eS ٤٣٥ J Po Voow Vy


The death in water of a thing that does not have blood flowing through its body
does not render the water impure such as a fish, frog, aquatic creature, mosquito,
fly, wasp, scorpion, or the like. According to Shafi'i it does pollute the water.'


ne Eley sls Se Ey Vy doles wis fe oS dg > oF BL ot Sly pol ein Wy


col S٣٩


In addition, the water is not ruined with the falling of a human into the well or
the falling of that which is lawful to eat,' provided it comes out alive and there
was no filth present on the body when it fell in. Likewise, the water is not ruined
with the falling of a mule, donkey, and predatory bird into the well, provided they
exit the water alive and this is the soundest view.


aaS> Je]Ul Ll ait old roy oly


If the saliva of the animal touches the water, then the water is judged according to
the animal; meaning, if the saliva from a sheep touches the water, then the water
is assessed according to the sheep - which is pure, but if the saliva of a dog touches
the water, then we assess the water according to the dog which results in its being
deemed filthy. Hence, the water is ruled based on the animal.


MLSs ٦٥٢ cre pms Ug Ce Ol p> oy ٩٩


" Tabarani ٢٠/٤٤٣.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٥.
* Al-Hidayya ٢٩.


٤
Such as a camel, cow or sheep.

