BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩١


the ell ٥ £ YL
That Which Is Not Permitted To Wipe On
ale fe ell ٥٥٢ Yo
It is not permissible to wipe on;


The turban. It is unlawful to wipe on the turban in exchange for wiping the head,
because it may prevent water from penetrating the turban and entering upon the
head, in which case the area required to be wiped(i.e. a quarter)was not
performed. It has been reported that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))did wipe on his turban, but what is ascertained from this is that the
wetness would reach his honourable head.{Malik informed that a report reached
me from Jabir Ibn Abdullah that he was asked about the wiping over the turban
and then he said; "No, not without the water touching the hair.""


Ady ٣ ٩ byl s
It is not permitted over the cap, veil or gloves because there is no hardship in
taking off these things. Nafi reported that he saw Safiyyah bint Abi Ubayd
perform wudu, she pulled off her headscarf then wiped her head.' Imam
Muhammad said we adhere to this: the headscarf should not be wiped over, nor


the turban. It has been narrated that the wiping over the turban was performed,
then abandoned. This is the verdict of Abu Hanifa and our fuqaha in general.


Lapuydadl Gd fui
Wiping The Splint Or Bandage And The Like'
dows plan Vy pall Job ahs VOI Dee gG Sy edti ve pas pS sl ox sh sacl lil
paslasclh sl fe aulicrs


If blood is drawn from a limb, or one suffers an injury or broken limb, after
which he applies a splint or bandage, and due to the severity of the injury is
unable to wash or wipe the limb, then it is necessary[wajib]to wipe the majority
of what is used to support the limb. That is, if one is unable to wipe the limb, then
it is necessary to wipe over the splint or bandage. Note: there are two views in the
Hanafi Madhhab concerning whether it is necessary[wajid]or obligatory[fard]to
wipe over the bandage. Abu Hanifa does not deem it obligatory; rather he
maintains that it is necessary[wajib]; and this is the correct view, to the extent that





" Muwattah of Imam Muhammad ٥٢
? Muwattah of Imam Muhammad ٥٣.
* The term jadira is typically two supports made of wood or palm branches and something
similar, which is then wrapped with cotton material over the broken limb. What is similar to


this is everything that is placed upon a part of the body which requires it, such as bandages,
leather or a brace.

