BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦١


٧/ To sleep in such a way that one's buttocks are not firmly set on the ground,
renders the wudu void. This occurs when a person sleeps while he is in a sitting
posture, though his buttocks are not firmly fixed, resulting in the nullification of
wudu.


Maraky al-Falah states. According to the Hanafis, the sleep itself does not invalidate
wudu owing to the fact that it is not impurity; rather it is due to the sleeping
person not being able to remain free from that which breaks wudu. This is the
sound view concerning the issue contrary to Shafi'i and Hanbal. Likewise, if one
undertakes a light sleep in a manner that one hears those who speak around him,
then the wudu remains sound. Though if one does not hear, then wudu is void.!


Moreover, in the Hanafi school, wudu is rendered void by sleep in three cases: to
sleep on one's side, back or one of the hips. The reason wudu is void is because
one is not firmly set due to the relaxation of the muscles and joints. As for
sleeping in the sitting posture where the buttocks are firmed set on the ground,
then the wudu remains sound. Likewise, one's wudu remains sound despite
sleeping in a standing posture, bowing posture or a proper prostration pose(as
done in prayer), because in these postures, one is flexing or gripping his body(though if one's body collapses in any of these postures, the wudu is void). The proof that
sleep does not invalid wudu except while lying down is the saying of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)"Wudu is not imposed except on the one
who sleeps lying down; for if one lies down, his joints and muscles relax."? Abu
Hanifa compared this to the postures of lying down on the back or hips, because
the cause of deficiency is found and it is the relaxation of the joints which is
present in both positions.'


lal § bi ١ of, atsil JG Sb stads play
٨/ The elevation of one's buttocks from the floor while one is sleeping and before
one becomes aware, nullifies the wudu even if one does not fall over. And this is


the evident view in the Madhhab on the basis that as soon as the buttocks are
elevated in a state of unawareness, ablution is nullified.


prs erg elély
٩/١٠/ Losing consciousness(fainting)/ temporary insanity / and drunkenness all
nullify wudu.
Beall oye be cy Fl dead gly > prey £٩٥٥ Id Dee J Uae, IL <pigs
١١/ Ablution is void if a mature conscious person laughs loudly in a prayer that
includes bowing and prostration even if he intentionally laughs in order to leave


the prayer. The same applies even if done forgetfully. With respect to audible
laughing; it is that which is heard by those around the individual. Though Imam


" Maraky al-Falah ٥٥.
? Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi, Ahmad in his Musnad, and Tabarani.
* Kitab al-Figh 'Ala Madhahib al-Arba'a, Abdur-Rahman al-Jaziri vol.١, ٧٤-٧٥.

