The Chapter Of Purification'
ol oo pebel ٥ ٩٢
That Which Is Permissible For Purification
tlie ame bee plas! ٥ ٩ Atoll!
The types of water permissible for purification are seven:
pall olay a soley all cley cI eley ged olay pall obey ol tt el


Rain water, ocean water, river water. Water from wells. Water from melted snow.
Hail water upon melting, and spring water. This is due to the saying of Allah[He(Allah)caused rain to descend from the heaven, to clean you therewithj;' and also
due to the words of the Prophet((Peace and blessings of Allah be upon him))[Water is pure and is not rendered impure by anything, except a thing that alters
its colour, taste or smell]. In addition there are the words of the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))regarding rivers[Its water is pure and the dead
things in it are permissible].


allt ¢Lal


The Types Of Water


Litt im Je olll
Water is divided into five types
GUL AW ya yey So nb poles jal Jy!


١/ The first type is water that is pure in itself, and is purifying for other things.
There is no dislike in using this type of water, which is plain water commonly
termed mutlaq water. This means that the essence of the water is pure and that it
can cleanse other things.


WE IS y ba gon y ٥ DI are cs Le gg oy So glee pale GUI,


٢/ The second type is water that is pure in itself and is purifying for other things,
although it is disliked to use because it is a small quantity of water that a cat or a
similar animal has drunk from.


" The term tahara(purification)is used in the Arabic language as cleanliness, regardless
whether it be in reference to something physical or spiritual. Allah the Exalted said(Take from
their wealth so that you might purify and sanctify them).(Quran: ٩;١٠٣]. The term tahara in its
juristic sense means; The ruling given to the place where prayer is concerned(place — meaning,
one's body, clothes and area where one prays), the cause being clean water or clean earth which
is deemed suitable for tayammum when there is no water.[Nur al-Idah].


; Quran ٢٥: ٤٨

