BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٣


Al-Ikhtiyar states. If the bandage over the injury extends beyond the actual wound
or cut; and untying the bandage and washing beneath it will cause harm to the
injury, then one is to wipe over the entire area(or the majority according to Abu
Hanifa). However, if untying the bandage and washing the unaffected area will not
cause harm, then one is to wash the unaffected area around the wound and wipe
the wound. If wiping the wound will adversely affect a person, then one is[to
leave the bandage tied and]wipe the section directly above the injury. One is also
to wash the area around the injured site and where the bandage has covered
unaffected skin, one is to wipe the untouched area beneath this. This is because
wiping has been granted due to necessity and it is to be restricted according to its
measure. !


ote os y % pels cell ٣

Wiping over the bandage or splint is like washing the area beneath it as long as
the cause is present. There is no time limit on how long a person can wipe the
bandage, though this is contrary to the wiping of the footgear[khuffain], which has
a duration of twenty four hours for a resident — after which one must remove his
footgear and wash his feet. Though wiping one's splint or bandage has no
duration and can be wiped as long as there is a standing reason. The only factor
that does not allow one to wipe over an injury is when the injury heals.


sob Je i ptlae bp Vy


It is not a stipulation to tie the splint(or bandage)in a state of purification. This
means that one is not required to place the bandage upon the injured area in a
state of wudu. However, with respect to wiping the footgear[khuffain], one is
required to wear them in a state of purification.


SPM fab eo che NW Stole eee yt


To wipe the bandage on one foot and wash the other is permissible. However, this
is not permissible for the wiping of the footgear[khuffain].


oll Ji lgb ye elt flaw Vy
The wiping is not nullified if the bandage falls off before the wound heals,


because there is a standing reason according to the Hanafis. However, this is
contrary to Shafi'i and other jurists who hold that its removal or its falling off
invalidates the wiping."


aioke]JuadVly « Ugbe eeu sale]Ut Vy be piu Ugh bys


It is permitted to change one bandage with another. And it is not necessary to
repeat the wiping on the new bandage provided the old one was wiped though it
is preferable to do so. Furthermore, if one places a new bandage on top of the old
one, then he is not required to wipe the top one. Likewise, if one wipes over the


" Al-Ikhtiyar ٤١.
? ALFigh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٦.

