٨٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


e-all glel Poel os poled SG ٣٣٥ SF oe ae IS gh: ells


٤- The fourth condition requires that cach khuf be free from a tear the size
equivalent to three of the smallest toes. If it is less, it is permitted. Imam Zufar
and Shafi'i said that it is not permitted even if the tear is less than this measure,
because the obligation of washing the area exposed makes the washing of the rest
obligatory. The basis of the Hanafi school is that the footgear[khuffain| is usually
not free from minor tears and the people will face hardship in taking them off.
Note: if for example the tears on one khuf are spread out, then it is of no harm if
the sum total of these tears is /ess than the measure described above; and if there
are multiple tears from both khufs, then they are not to be combined; that is, each
khuf is judged on its own. This means that if there are tears on both khufs which
do not prevent the wiping, though if combined would equal the prohibited
measure; it does not prevent the validity of the wiping and the wiping is legal."


des ne cpt ple I fe gSlnerel : lb,
٥- They must hold to the feet without being tied.
Id Af Ul S poy L gare : less


٦- They must prevent water from reaching the skin. Note: they must prevent the
amount of water present on the hand at the time of wiping. They are not
waterproof, but they must prevent this amount from reaching the skin.


Yeo pis LGB OLS yd AI lel rel ope bel OU pad pall pie ye gy OI GL
or ٩٤ phat nde ONS yy ate le emer


٧- For wiping to be valid, the front part of the foot must be physically present, the
length being equivalent to three of the smallest fingers of the hand.' And if one is
missing the front part of his foot, he cannot wipe his khuf even if the heel is
present, because the compulsory place to wipe is absent. It is therefore
compulsory to wash the foot instead. Mere presence of the heel is not sufficient for
the wiping to be valid.


" Radd al-Muhtar ١/٤٦٠.


* This means that the length is to be equal to width of three of the smallest fingers. If not, then
it is not permissible.


BOoK I: PURIFICATION ٨٩


le jlicl, col bbe
The Duration Of Wiping And When It Begins
CAIN J day DIDI ٥g ye all elscal"y ILL LIS BLN, AS, Leys pill eness


A resident(non-traveller)is permitted to wipe his footgear for one day and one
night(i.e. ٢٤ hours)whereas the traveller is permitted three days and three nights(i.e. ٧٢ hours)and this period begins when a person breaks his wudu after wearing
the footgear." Ali(Allah be pleased with him)said that[The Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))had appointed three days and three nights
as the period when a traveller is permitted to observe wiping, and one day and
one night as the period for the non-traveller].


wal es Sle as
Changing One's Status
BLaMI bade Sl ius LE Ld Ble ٣ pada ene Oly


If a resident begins to wipe and then travels before completing his term, then he is


to complete the period permitted for a traveller, which is three days and three
nights.'


ALS y Leys ae Vgc ٦٣ dy ley: cane le dey SL pid OL,


If however, a traveller becomes a resident, and had already wiped for one day and
one night, then the wiping is nullified because he is now a resident, though if he
had not wiped for one day and one night, he is to complete this term.


nw ٩٦g ws
The Portion Which Is Obligatory To Wipe And Its Sunna
os JS pads lb de att abel rl oo elel OW ud ell ٢ ٣٥
It is obligatory to wipe the area equivalent to the three smallest fingers of the
hand over the top part of each foot. Note: if this area becomes wet even with a
cloth or by pouring water over the required area, then it is permissible. Though
the sunna is to use the hand. Additionally, the wiping of the footgear is to be done


once only over the top part of each khuf. It is not valid to wipe beneath the khuf,
nor the back or side of it; and it is not sunna to repeat the wiping."


" For example; if a person makes wudu at ٨:٠٠ am and then wears his footgear, and then at


١٢:٠٠ pm, he breaks his wudu. His duration therefore begins from ١٢:٠٠ pm because it is at that
time in which he first broke his wudu.


? For example; If one's duration of wiping his footgear begins at ١٠:٠٠ am Monday, because
that is when he first broke his wudu; and then later that night at around ٨:٠٠ pm, he becomes a


traveller, he is permitted to keep wiping his footgear until Wednesday ١٠:٠٠ am. This is a total
of seventy two hours.


° Maraky al-Falah ٨٢.

