BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٩


However, a female is not required to open her braids — provided the water
reaches the roots as is agreed upon, due to the hadith[Umm Salama who asked
the Prophet, "Apostle of Allah, ١ am a woman who keeps her hair closely plated.
Should I undo it when I wash after sexual relations?" He replied, "It is enough for
you to throw three handfuls over it, then pour water all over your body and you
will be purified."" One of the reasons for this as experts have explained is due to
hardship in undoing and redoing the hair that consumes a very long time.


CHEN ally bly SL yy Gas


It is obligatory to wash the skin underneath the beard, moustache, eyebrows, as
well as the immediate inner part of the outer lips of the vagina, not the internal
area.


Sant spe Ole
The Sunan Of The Major Bath
Let oe St SLY ope
Twelve things are sunna in the major bath and they are;
Q)ly SL ela!


It is sunna to start by uttering, "In the name of God, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate[tasmiyya]," and to make one's intention. Note: just as a person is
rewarded for having an intention in wudu, the same applies to bathing. With
respect to the fasmiyya, the Prophet said, "Every important matter that is not
commenced with the name of God, is devoid of divine blessing,"? and the asmiyya
should coincide with the intention, so that the éasmiyya is on the tongue and the
intention is in the heart.


cna HM SI cpl pr(Ce Ob R))y


One is to commence the actions with the washing of the hands to the wrists.
Therefore, the tasmiyya and intention are to be observed with the washing of the
wrists. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported that((If the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))performed the major bath from janaba, he began
with washing his hands)).*


asl ab GIS Jibs jéy


It is sunna to wash away any impurity if it is isolated on the body. The sunna is to
wash it off before it dries so that one feels content that it has been removed.


" Abu Dawud ٢٥١.
? Ibn Majah ١٨٩٤.
٣ Muslim ٣١٦.

