١٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Ball Low! I


II)that one intend(the tayammum)to make prayer permissible for himself.
Meaning, if a person intends tayammum to make prayer lawful, it is a valid
intention for prayer because its permissibility lifts the status of impurity.


٨ sleb Os ena Vio pads dole i Jl


III)that one intend(the tayammum to perform)a specific act of worship, an act
which requires purity. For example, the recital prostration requires one to be in a
state of purity in order to perform it; this means that if a person intends
tayammum so he can carry out the prostration of recital, then this is a valid intent
for prayer because purity is achieved by intending that act. Another example is
that of a person who says, "/ intend tayammum for the prayer of janaza" and it is
known that the prayer of janaza is an act that one must be pure for. Therefore, by
intending the prayer of janaza in one's tayammum, one may also offer prayer with
this intent. Thus, if a person intends in their tayammum a specific act which
requires purity, then one is also permitted to pray with that intention.


Lee So dy OM ool wally ٣]ad els ٩٥١]٤ ea


A person cannot pray if he only intends tayammum. Purity must be factored in the
intention in some form, as shown in the above valid intentions for prayer. And
neither can a person pray if he intends the recitation of Quran, yet he is not in a
state of major impurity(janaba). Meaning, this person is in a state of minor
impurity and intends tayammum for the recitation of Quran, not to touch it. In
his case he is already permitted to recite the Quran. Another reason is that mere
recitation of Quran in his case does not place one in legal purity.


Note: if one is in a state of sexual impurity[janaba]and intends tayammum for the
recitation of Quran, then it is a valid intention since recitation is part of prayer(and one of its pillars). Though if one intends tayammum to touch the Quran, or
enter a mosque, then he cannot offer prayer with either of these intentions
because they are not from the pillars of prayer. Likewise, intending tayammum to
visit a cemetery or to offer the adhan and iqama are not valid according to the
majority of Hanafi scholars. Moreover, Abu Yusuf held that if one intends
tayammum for the purpose of entering Islam, it serves as a valid intent for prayer
given that it is the peak of attaining nearness to God. However, Abu Hanifa and
Muhammad maintain that it is not valid and this is the soundest view. Also, if one
intends tayammum for the prostration of gratitude[sajda ash-Shukr|, there are
varying views on the issue.


" Maraky al-Falah ٧٢.

