BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٥


filthy. However, the Hanafis explained this hadith of qudlatayn stating that the
narrations conflict in this regard; for some state when the water reaches one qulla
and some state three and some state forty.'


c٢٧ HOS sT ab SV, be glad by bole ol
If however, an impurity falls in running water and the signs of filth appear in it,
then it is deemed impure. The signs(or traces)of filth are taste, colour or smell.
Though if the filth is not evident or noticeable, then wudu is permitted because
the filth does not remain due to the flow of the water. Note: running water is one


that is not used repeatedly, such that if one scoops up water once, it will not be the
same water when one scoops it up the next time.


pa BT gle es SL yng ey gg GN Steele ld,


٥/ The fifth type of water is that which is doubtful with respect to its purifying
other things, and not with respect to its actual purity.? This is water which a
donkey or mule has drunk from. This doubt will be explained shortly.


re Sl bad
The Rulings of Remnant Water[Su'r]'
Lg pny pl dul fo ٠٩K Ol yr aro ١٣ Pal ely


If an animal drinks from a smal]amount of water, the remaining water is called
su'r, and there are four categories:


aad Sp be gh ٣ ol palace tle yay gle pale : JI


١. The first type is water that is pure in itself and is purifying for other things and
this is the water that a human drinks from, provided there is no filth in his mouth
at the time, such as alcohol; or water that a horse drinks from, for the leftover


water of the horse is pure according to the majority, or an animal whose meat is
lawful for consumption.


ie phe oe et ah pb gb NS G٢ gay Slated jt Y pd GI
tly spas


٢. The second type is filthy water that is not permissible to use. This is water that


a dog, pig or predatory land animal, such as a cheetah, fox or wolf have drunk
from.


; Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Silkini ٣٤.

? That is, the doubt does not pertain to the purity of this water; rather, the doubt pertains
to whether it can purify other things.

* Su'r is known as the remainder. Legally, it is the small quantity of water which remains
after a human or animal have drunk. This means that the water of a river or ocean cannot
be termed sur even if thousands of people or animals drink from its water.


PANS pbal Flame y SHSM dle y ٥ Al ٥ yg one ogy ee Sel oy Ke SIU,


wm aI EWS(Spl Sty y)Lably Cra ly


٣. The third type is water that is disliked to use in the presence of plain water.
Meaning if plain unmixed water is available, it becomes disliked to use this type
of water. This is the leftover water of a cat, stray chicken, predatory bird such as
an eagle, falcon and glede as well as animals that tend to be located in or around
the home such as a rat or snake, though there is no dislike in using the leftover
water of a scorpion. The reason for a stray chicken is because it is free to roam
and one cannot be sure if it has eaten something filthy or not. If however the
chicken is caged, then its leftover water is not disliked. Moreover, with respect to
why predatory birds are in this type and their difference to predatory animals, is
that predatory land animals drink with their tongues, and this is wet with saliva
that is deemed impure, whereas predatory birds drink with their beak, and their
beaks are bones which are pure.


ee pb peciy gle gone dt ١ ob lt Bed pe pay rth GAR IN
٤. The fourth type is water that is suspect(doubtful)with respect to its purity.
This is the left over water of a mule or donkey. If there is mo other water
available, then one is permitted to make ablution with this type and then make


tayammum, followed by prayer. The reason one also observes tayammum is
precautionary in case the wudu is not accepted due to the water.


tly GIVI spall d pad
Investigating Utensils And Clothes
rly ٣٢ Ws Fo plb ls si oti bet
If some pots containing clean water are placed near some pots that contain filthy
water, though the majority is clean, then a person is required to investigate that


which he can use for wudu and drinking. Note: A person may investigate for
drinking out of necessity.


we UY! ٦ pen ¥ Les be ssi ols oly
If the majority are filthy, then a person investigates the matter only for drinking.
This may arise due to necessity such as extreme thirst in a distant place where one


fears for his life. This being the case, the person is exempt from having to
investigate the water with respect to wudu because the majority is impure.


Leos gil alb Le ٢٥l OS ele ٥ eee daa OL G,


With respect to clean clothes mixing with filthy clothes, one must investigate to
determine which items are to be worn regardless if the majority of them are filthy
or clean, for it is better to pray in clothes that are completely impure, than to
perform prayer naked.

