BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥٣


٦ ~ Jl AI ٣ ao
The Etiquettes Of Wudu(Recommended Measures)Literally, the word adab means to put something in its correct place. In its juristic
sense, it is considered as that which the Prophet performed once or twice. This is
also called nafl, mustahab, mandub and tatawwu'. The one who undertakes its
performance is rewarded though is not blameworthy for its omission.


et he date pe gl lal
There are ١٤ practices that are recommended in wudu;
CB ٢ Ss ٣ ow ght


١/ To sit on an elevated place for the reason that one should avoid the used water
and allow it to flow away without splashing back onto one's clothes or body.


Ua JLenly


٢/ Facing the direction of prayer for it is superior regarding the acceptance of
supplication during the ablution.


one oun Yi ples


٣/ The third is not to seek assistance from others in performing wudu so one may
rise in worship alone without the help of others.


tl ers Alsi ees


٤/ To abstain from talking in a manner of the general speech of people which is
devoid of remembrance as this distracts a person from making supplication the
Prophet has taught us((God bless him and grant him peace)).


٥/ To unite the intention of the heart with the verbal utterance of the tongue.
ppl ele,


٦/ To make supplications which have been transmitted from the Prophet,
Companions and Tabi'in is recommended.


pas JS v٦ daly


٧/ To say, "In the Name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate" at the time of
washing or wiping each limb.


sil Cle Go pat Sal,


" Maraky al-Falah ٤٦.


٥٤ BOOK |: PURIFICATION


٨/ To insert the little finger within the opening of the ears. This is performed in
order to increase the area of wiping.


gelato Z,


٩/ To move around the wide loose ring to ensure optimum cleaning is among the
desirable practices of wudu.


١٠/ To gargle and draw water into the nostrils with the right hand and withdraw
the nasal mucus with the left hand.


pylall CaN I> JS poy


I١/ Performing wudu before the time of prayer has entered is from the etiquette
of wudu, though not for a person who is excused." The issue of a person deemed
excused is detailed in due course.


ody lgL OLY,


١٢/ To recite the two declarations of faith after the completion of wudu while
standing. The Prophet((Peace be upon him))said[If anyone of you performs
ablution and performs it well, and when he finishes ablution, he utters the words
'I bear witness that there is no god except Allah and I bear witness that
Muhammad is His servant and Messenger; all the eight doors of Paradise will be
opened for him, he may enter through any of them].'(BG «pb gl Judi oe oe eal
١٣/ To drink from the remaining water of wudu standing is a recommended
practice of wudu; meaning, one is to drink from the remaining water he
performed wudu from and do so standing facing the qibla or one may sit because


the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Drank standing from the
excess of wudu, the water of Zamzam].'


ce pba ope pled y Cull ce lend pg: Uy aly
١٤/ Upon this, it is recommended to say, "O Allah make me from among the repenters


and make me from those who are pure."[Allahuma ij'alni min at-tawwabin waj'alni minal
mutatahhirin}.


"A person deemed excused is one who suffers from a chronic ailment such as continuously
breaking wind and therefore unable to maintain wudu for the time needed to perform an
obligatory prayer. One is therefore excused and permitted to pray even while he/she suffers
from the condition during the prayer. Therefore, the observance of wudu prior to the prayer
time entering is not for such a person.

* Abu Dawud ١٦٩.

* Bukhari ١٦٣٧.

