٣٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


LH Of U٥ NL ٠S Hut I pbs oN obey Joell US Itoy Y Gill itll Lal,


De Kanye ped gil ay ٥٩٦ V glad oye Jb parr tt ell op» orb,

In the case of water mixing with a liquid substance which has no characteristic to
it, such as previously used water or rose water that has lost its smell, then it is
assessed by weight. That is, if two ratls of used water mixes with one rat of plain
water(mutlaq), then ablution is not permitted with this water. If the opposite
occurs, it is permissible. Note: a raél is both a weight and a volumetric measure.
One ratl in Baghdad measure is equal to ٣٨٤.٢٤٠ grams. Two ratls are therefore
equal to ٧٦٩ grams. "


rd pte J pe ٩٩ le flay HUF NIST, OWS y dle ad > CUI ay rd ole aS


٤٣ a JI gle dol,

٤/ The fourth type is filthy(najis)water. This is a small quantity of still water into
which an impurity has fallen. The water is deemed impure even if no trace of the
filth appears therein. A small quantity of water is considered as less than ten by
ten arm lengths.' Note: water can be retained in a place that is either — square,
circular or rectangular as is seen in ponds and basins. If the place is square and
the length of each side is ten arm lengths(i.e. its area is ten by ten general arm
lengths), then it is considered as a large amount of water. If it is less, then it is
deemed as a small quantity. If the water is in a place that is circular and the
circumference is thirty six arms length, it is considered a large quantity of water.
If it is less, the water is considered as a small quantity. And with respect to a large
quantity, the depth is such that if one reaches into it to scoop up water, the base of
the water would not appear. Therefore, if one knows for sure or strongly believes
that filth[najis]has fallen in a small quantity of still water, then it is regarded impure,
even if no trace of the filth appears therein.' Though if the water is considered as
a large quantity of water, and an impurity falls in — it does not become filthy
unless the trait of filth becomes noticeable therein; and this is the soundest view.'


With respect to this type of water, it is not permitted to remove pAysical or legal
filth with it. As for Shafi'i, he held that the small quantity of water is restricted to
less than gudlatayn(i.e. less than ٢١٦ litres);? so that if the water reaches gullatayn(i.e. ٢١٦ litres)and an impurity falls in, though no sign of its colour, taste or smell
become apparent, then it is deemed pure, given that the Prophet said[If the water
reaches quilatayn(or ٢١٦ litres), then it does not carry filth].° If on the other hand,
the signs of filth do become apparent in ٢١٦ litres of water, then it is deemed


" Maraky al-Falah ١٦.[See page ٢٨ of this text for weights and measurements].

* An anm's length is considered as being from the tips of the fingers to the elbow(٤٨cm).

* Nur alIdah ١٤.

* ALFigh al-Islamy ٣٣.

? Qullatayn which the dual word of gulla equates to ٥٠٠ ratl in Baghdad terms.

% Reported by the five, and Ibn Habban graded it as sound. Moreover, the meaning of '/t
does not carry filth,' means that it does not become impure.[Fiqh alIslamy ٣٤].

