١٠٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


teal Lt - aul
Examples of light filth
SS٥Y po ety ed[Spl Sp liSy lly Sb daadi Ul,


As for light filth, it includes the urine of a horse because its meat is permitted to
eat even though it is disliked. However, Imam Muhammad held its meat as pure."
The urine of an animal whose meat is lawful to eat such as a sheep, and the
droppings of birds that are not lawful to eat such as a falcon, hawk and eagle.(Refer to table ١ and ٢ at the end of the chapter). Al-Hidayah, one of the main
Hanafi texts mentions that if one's clothes are soiled by the urine of a horse, then
it does not affect its purity, unless it is excessive according to Abu Hanifa and
Abu Yusuf. This degree of excessiveness is clarified under the next heading.
Muhammad on the other hand held that it does not prevent prayer even if it is
excessive.


Additionally, if one's dress is soiled by the droppings of birds whose meat is
unlawful, to the extent that the soiled area exceeds the size of a dirham, then
prayer is permitted in it. Imam Muhammad held that it is not permissible because
there is no necessity due to the absence of these birds in human habitations. Abu
Yusuf argued that they send their droppings from the air and it is difficult to take
preventative measures against this, hence, the necessity is established.'


op ٤F an
The Degree Of Filth That Is Excused
Rac ye GIS gh Syl gy ٠٩٢ boys Madall ops pm All jad of ity
Regarding heavy filth, the size of a dirham is excused.' The reason this is exempt


is because it is not possible to avoid a little impurity and it is therefore excused.
And the estimation of this unavoidable impurity is up to the size of a dirham. If
however, the amount exceeds this, it is not exempt. Light filth which has afflicted
less than one quarter of one's dress or body, is excused, though if it reaches one
quarter, it is not. If it is asked - as to which item of clothing does one measure the quarter?
The response is that it has been said that the minimum clothing a person can pray
in, is that which covers his private area(i.e. from the navel to the bottom of the
knees). Therefore, if light filth afflicts a person's clothes such as on the sleeve,
pants and bottom, and this amount equals to a quarter of the minimum clothing
for prayer or exceeds it, then it is not excused, though if it is less, it is pardoned.


" Maraky al-Falah ٩٦.
* Al-Hidayah ٣٨.
* Imam Zufar and Imam Shafi' said that such things are impure, whether it is more or less


because the text of law has not made a distinction. The Hanafi position is that a little impurity
is unable to avoid and is therefore pardoned.(Al-Hidayah).

