٧٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ap Sent s
To wash the sexual organs is sunna even if there is no noticeable impurity; this is
so that one feels content that water has reached the section of the body that
connects with the private part when one is standing and disconnects when one is
seated.


AAD pees fentll Che Tal ٤٥ yd ٥ Le go ٠


It is sunna to perform ablution, such as the ablution one makes for prayer,
washing the parts of ablution three times including the wiping of the head. Ibn
Abbas((Allah be pleased with him))reported on the authority of Maimuna, his
mothers sister, that she said[I placed water near the Messenger of Allah so that
he could take a bath from sexual intercourse, in which he washed his hands twice
or three times and then put his hand in the basin and poured water over his
private parts and washed them with his left hand. He then struck his hand against
the earth and rubbed it and then performed wudu upon which he washed his
whole body after which he moved aside from that place and washed his feet]."


Wd eat Je J de OW Ole I Le op oS),


One is to delay the washing of his feet if he is bathing in a place where the water
gathers and rises, for this is what the Prophet did((God bless him and grant him
peace)).

inal)JaSI ٨٤ ١٨٠ y Sa gh Le gh og Hal call ٨ punt gly UU ada gle cLall arty ٥
After this, it is sunna to pour water on the entire body three times, or one may
submerge himself in running water or anything else of similar legal status such as


a large quantity of water. If one remains in such water for a short duration, then
he has fulfilled the sunna.


pals pa eSu ade faery eed y ell ne destiny


One is to begin the process of washing by pouring water over the head, followed
by the right shoulder, then the left shoulder.


abe MN yey etn Wivs


It is sunna to rub the body with the water[da/k]and to wash successively without
pausing between the actions.


" Maraky al-Falah ٦٥.
? Muslim ٣١٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION
slay Soy JLEY lal
The Etiquettes And Disliked Actions Of Ghusl
yl AtS eo NE OK OV dal Je V sl Y]o pS OT JLEYI ist,


The etiquettes of the major bath are the same as that of wudu. The exception ;
that in the major bath, one is not to face the qibla because one is nak mi ft is
always. It is recommended that a person undertake the major bath ost
where no one can see him. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him pe

said[God is Ever Living and Ever Concealed from the eyes of the people Lari
likes those who acquire the qualities of modesty and concealment: = wh e
anyone of you wants to bath, let him observe secrecy]." Maraky al-Falah expl —
that when a man is bathing alongside other men and does not find the ace ains
observe secrecy, then he is to choose a place that is the least exposed ete to
applies to a woman who bathes alongside other women. The sin is ae :
onlooker if another person has uncovered his private part to bath. :


in a place


spo ae Stabe ss


And that which is disliked in ablution is disliked in the major bath with th
exception that it is disliked to speak, even if it is supplication, because the : e
parts are exposed. Private


dy gell"y ٦٤٥ god SLE ٥ fuai
When Ghusl Is Sunna And Recommended
& yb JLEY!
Occasions When Ghusl Is Sunna
eLtl da ULE Y oe





It is sunna to perform the major bath for four occasions,
dant BL
١- Friday prayer because it is the greatest of days. The Prophet((God b
and grant him peace))said[The greatest of days is Friday].? Por eats
crtsll ie y


٢- The Eid prayers. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
perform the major bath on the day of Fitr, Adha and Arafah.' ee would


" Abu Dawud.
٢ Ahmad ٣٣/٤٣٠.
* Tbn Majah ١٣١٦.


٧٢ BOOK |: PURIFICATION


Laws
٣- It is sunna for the ihram, which is the state of sanctification that one enters for
hajj and umrah as the Prophet performed((God bless him and give him peace))."
ly Nan de ٣ cE,


٤- It is sunna for the one performing hajj to bath af Arafah after the sun passes the
meridian(i.e. when the dhuhr time enters). This is specific for the one performing
hajj, not others.


yall SLZY!
The Occasions When It Is Recommended
bb tote GUL Oey
It is recommended to perform the major bath on sixteen occasions;
Lalb Lolo
١- The major bath is recommended for a person accepting Islam while free from
major ritual impurity[janaba], such as menstrual periods and postnatal bleeding.


The reason the major bath is recommended in this case is to ensure they are free
of any traces of that which may have been previously."


othabels


٢- It is recommended for one who matures by age; and according to the adopted
view in the Hanafi Madhhab, the maximum age is fifteen years for both sexes.
Therefore, one who has not yet experienced a nocturnal dream or a girl who has
not yet received a menstrual period is regarded mature at the age of fifteen. See
the previous chapter: Conditions That Obligate Wudu.


Ogee Bul oly
٣- It is recommended for a person who recovers from insanity and fainting.


٤- It is recommended after hijamah, commonly termed cupping. The basis is the
Prophets hadith on the matter((God bless him and give him peace)). Note:
hijamah is when tiny cuts are made to the skin after which blood flows.


oe es


" AcTirmidhi, the Book of Hajj ٨٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٦٨.

