BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٥





tawaf around the ka'bah is unlawful in the states of sexual impurity. This is owing
to the following: the tawaf(even if it is optional)is offered within the mosque and
purity is required therein. Likewise, tawaf is included in the meaning of prayer as
has been established in the sunna that the Prophet said, "Tawaf around the
House is like prayer, except that you may speak. So whoever speaks should speak
about that which is good."!


That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Minor Impurity(Hadath)Ll OW Saad feo ٥
Three things are forbidden in the state of minor impurity;
SL YY arcana y Oil ghally sal


Prayer, tawaf around the ka'bah and to touch the Quran without a covering is
unlawful as it is prohibited by Quranic text, even if it is a verse.


yaS> yd sll
Chronic Vaginal Discharge |Istihada]' and Its Ruling
yt GS sey gay Role La iy ely Vy be pe Vy dhe wes V pil le ٥ Lob p٢٥
Jilly ١A ye lyolt bay Oglny ٥p IS Cay by Shely


The blood of istthada(chronic vaginal discharge)is like that of a permanent nose
bleed. It does not prevent prayer, fasting, or intercourse. The one suffering from
chronic vaginal discharge is required to perform ablution at the time of each
obligatory prayer. The same applies for anyone who suffers a chronic condition('udthr), in that they must perform ablution at the time of every prayer, such as a
person who is unable to stop intermittent drops of urine or continually breaking
wind. Other conditions include a perpetual nose bleed or the constant flow of
blood from an injury. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said{The women with extended bleeding is to perform wudu for each prayer]. And
with this ablution, one may pray as many obligatory and optional prayers as he
likes, even if during the prayer he/she is bleeding, or unable to stop urine or wind
from exiting. Note: the term excused[ma'dhur]applies to a person who suffers
from a chronic ailment for a complete prayer time and is therefore unable to
maintain wudu for the time needed to offer the prayer. One is therefore excused
and permitted to offer the prayer even with the presence of the illness.


" Tirmidhi in the Chapter of Hajj ٩٦٠.[Maraky al-Falah ٩١).
* This is known medically as "dysfunctional uterine bleeding."
* bn Majah in his Sunan.

