BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥١


٩ — It is sunna to wash the limbs three times. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[Performed the acts of ablution once and said, "This is the
obligatory requisite of ablution." He then performed each act of ablution twice
saying, "This is the ablution who God grants a double reward." He thereafter
performed each act thrice and said, "This is my wudu, the wudu of the Prophets
before me."]."


٥ ceokh Hl Slaels


١٠ — Wiping the entire head is sunna due to the report that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))[Performed wudu and wiped his entire head].'
Imam Shafi'i holds that the sunna is to do so thrice with water renewed each time.
Our argument is that Anas((God be pleased with him))performed each act of
ablution thrice, but performed the wiping of the head once. He then said, "This is
the ablution of the Messenger of God"((God bless him and give him peace)). This
is a sound tradition.'


ot Mele gy Og٥YI ey


١١ — To wipe the ears, even if it is with the water used for the head is a sunna
practice as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The ears are
from the head]. However, Shafi'i disagrees with using the same water for both
limbs.


AU


١٢ — To rub the limbs with water is sunna. This is known as dak, and other than
Malik and Imam Awza'i, no other jurist held it obligatory.


Yl


١٣ — Washing the limbs successively without pausing between them, such that in
normal weather the last part would not dry before one began the next.
aly

١٤ — The intention of wudu is sunna. Though Malik and Shafi'i said that it is
compulsory because it is an act of worship which is not valid without it, as in the
case of tayammum. Our argument is the words of Allah[O you who believe!
When you prepare for prayer wash your face.]and there is no mention of
intention. Abu Hanifa said if one does not intend, then the wudu is valid, but the
rewards are less. Another argument is: the reason it is obligatory in tayammum is
because the soil is not an original source where by one can attain purification. It is


"Ibn Majah ٤٢٠.

? Bukhari ١٨٥.

. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٠.
* Abu Dawud ١٣٤.


٥٢ BOOK !: PURIFICATION


therefore essential to make the intention to render the soil pure, whereas with
wudu, purification has been achieved through a purifying substance, namely
water. "


aS b SLs dil a٣ |S Silly


١٥ — The chronological order of ablution is sunna as Allah mentioned them in
His book, while Imam Malik and Imam Shafi'i held it as obligatory. This means
that to begin ablution with what Allah mentioned in the Quran is sunna[Wash
your faces, and your hands(and arms)up to the elbows; rub your heads(with
water)and wash your feet up to the ankles]. The reason in our view as to why it is
sunna and not obligatory is because of the letter waw' which is mentioned in the
verse. The Hanafi school held that this indicates union without restriction by
consensus of the experts in language. On the other hand, Imam Shafi'i held, that
it is the letter fa' which creates a binding command for what follows.'


wl Nl pies gel ٩٩٠٣ ld delat,


١٦/١٧/ — It is sunna to: i)begin with the right when washing the limbs, ii)to
commence the washing from the tips of the fingers and toes of the feet and iii)with respect to the head, to begin the wiping from the frontal part. A'ishah
reported that Allah's Messenger loved to start from the right hand side in
purification as he purified himself.' Additionally, Abu Hurairah reported that
Allah's Messenger said[As you perform ablution, begin it from your right hand
sides].*


eb Y <٥ I mes
١٨ — It is sunna to wipe the neck, not the throat.
does Vda Ol: fay


It has been said that the last four mentioned acts(namely point ١٥, ١٦, ١٧, and ١٨)are recommended, and not sunna.


" An example of how one may attain wudu without intending is by inadvertently falling in
a river or the like during which the parts required for wudu become wet.

? Al-Hidayah ١٤.

٧ Tbn Majah ٤٠١.

* Tbn Majah ٤٠٢.

