The Chapter Of Najasa(Filth)And Its Purification


The chapter of najasa is divided into two categories. The first is the real or true
najasa |najasa hagigiyya|, which is referred to as khubth(meaning repugnant or foul).
This is known as all things whose essence or substance is legally regarded impure
and filthy, such as urine, wine, flowing blood, stool, pus and vomit that is a
mouthful.' The second type is the legal najasa(najasa hukmiyya|, referred to as
hadath, which is an attribute that the law applies upon unclean limbs. That is, it is
either minor or major impurity.


doled! oLil
The Types Of Filth[Najasa]daar y ale ned S]bel as
Filth is divided into two types: heavy and light.
dads! el oy dei
Examples of heavy filth
Upcldy Elanall ase ay AS pani y sod JS VOI py lelaly St ty ce piedl pally HIS deLIU
OLS Ody oye dry Pure pd sll ats ey Syl y baly cleo >


Heavy filth includes things like alcohol, flowing blood,' the meat of a dead anima
and its hide(skin),* the urine of animals whose meat is unlawful such as a human
fox or wolf, the dung of a dog as well as the dung of a predatory animal and it:
saliva, the droppings of a chicken, duck or swan, and whatever discharges from :
person's body which nullifies wudu, such as flowing blood, sperm, madhi(pre
cum), menstrual period, postnatal bleeding and vomit that is a mouthful and s
on.


" Nur al-Idah ٦٢.


? The meaning of flowing blood in this point is blood that flows from its original place t
another location which then requires purification. The blood which pours forth from
slaughtered animal is deemed impure as Allah the Exalted mentioned in the Quran[or bloo
poured forth](Quran ٦:١٤٥). Though the little trace of blood which remains on the meat is put
as well as that which remains in its veins, liver, and spleen. The blood that exits one's body, bt
does not flow from its place is pure according to the correct view(for this does not nullify one
wudu). Likewise, the blood of the flea, lice and ant is deemed pure even if it was a large amoun
The blood of the fish and the blood of the martyr are also deemed pure.(Maraky al-Falah ٩٥).
> That is, animals that have blood flowing through their body. This however excludes fis
grasshoppers, and animals that do not have blood flowing through their body.

