١٠٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


need to learn it or for fear of losing it. This rule however differs to one who is
sexually impure on the basis that the sexually impure person is able to become
pure by bathing and this can be done before recitation. However, the
menstruating woman is unable to do this and for that reason, she is permitted to
recite for the purposes of learning and teaching.'


He VI ms


٤ To touch the Quran is forbidden unless it be with a covering that is separate
from the Quran. Allah says[No-one can touch it, except those who are pure]'.
Note: one cannot touch any part of the Quran in such a state. Such parts include
the attached covering, the white part of the paper and the book itself. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[No one besides the person in a state
of purification is to touch the Quran].' It prohibited to touch the verses if they are
written on various items, such as a wall, clothing or piece of treasure or in books.
Moreover, it is unlawful to touch only the verses if they are written in book of
tafsir, hadith, figh and other subjects. However, if the Quranic verses in the books
of tafsir are more than that of the éafsir, then it takes the same ruling of touching
the Quran. As for touching the Quran with one's sleeve, there are two view that
have been reported from Imam Muhammad. The first is that it is prohibitively
disliked and the second is that it is not disliked. Lastly, it is permissible to turn the
pages of the Quran for recitation with certain things, such as a pen."


dome J yoy


٥- To enter a mosque is unlawful. This is due to the hadith that Umm Salam
reported that the Prophet entered the courtyard of this mosque(i.e. the holy
Prophet)and exclaimed with a loud voice,[The masjid is lawful neither for a man
in a state of janaba(major ritual impurity)nor a menstruating female].' And the
ruling for menstrual periods is like the ruling for postnatal bleeding(nifas).


il gly


٦- Tawaf around the ka'bah is forbidden in the state of menstrual periods and
postnatal bleeding, even if the tawaf accepted. This is because purity is
conditional to its perfect performance. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said[Perform that which the pilgrim of hajj performs, though do not make tawaf until
you become clean].° If one performs tawaf az-Ziyarah(a pillar of hajj)in a state of
major impurity, then one must sacrifice a cow or camel and for the tawaf deemed





Maraky al-Falah ٨٨ | Al-F igh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٦-١٤٧.
* Al-Wagi'ah ٧٩.

* An-Nasai, Darqutani and others. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ١٩٦-٩٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.

* Tbn Majah ٦٤٥.

* Bukhari ٣٠٥ / Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠]wajib, one is to sacrifice a sheep, unless she repeats the tawaf in a state of purity. "
Likewise, the one who makes tawaf in a state of minor impurity must sacrifice a
sheep unless one repeats the tawaf in a state of purity.' The Prophet said[Tawaf
around the House is like prayer, except that you may speak. So whoever speaks
should speak about that which is good].


cltls


٧- Sexual intercourse is unlawful for a menstruating woman or a woman in a state
of postnatal bleeding.'


iS Nod Wo plod by pV


٨- Likewise, sexual enjoyment of the area beneath the naval to the bottom of her
knees is unlawful. The basis for this is the hadith: Malik informed us: Zaid Ibn
Aslam informed us that a man asked the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace)), "What part of my wife is permissible to me while she is in her menstrual
periods?" He said, "She should put on her Izar{the large cloth wrapped around
the lower half of the body}, then your concern is with her upper half."> Imam
Muhammad said: this is the verdict of Abu Hanifa. Something easier than this
came from A'ishah who said[He should avoid the place of blood, and he may
have whatever else].


St eb SI > lity att oY pall abaail Ly
If the bleeding for the menstrual period stops due to reaching its maximum
duration of ten days; or the bleeding stops after forty days for postnatal bleeding(which is the maximum duration)then it is permissible for the female to have
sexual intercourse without performing the major bath. The reason is because the
verse in the Quran, in particular the word(٥ dt.)has two different readings. One
is recited with a sukun on the letter(٤٤)and a damma on the letter 'A' and the other
reading with a shadda on the letter(٤)and the letter '٤' and both letters read with
a fat-ha. The one with the sukun implies[Do not approach them until they are pure]ee ee eer
" ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٩.
? Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.

٣ Tirmidhi in the Chapter of Hajj ٩٦٠


* If a person does have sexual intercourse with his wife while she is menstruating, then it is
recommended for him to give charity with a dinar, repent and not do it again. It has been stated
that if the blood was dark, then one should donate a dinar. And if it were yellow, then one
should donate half a dinar. The basis for this charity is the report in Abu Dawud ٢٦٥, which
was authenticated by al-Hakim;((If a man had sexual intercourse with his wife and she is
menstruating, then if her blood was red, then he is to pay one dinar and if it were yellow, then
he is to give half a dinar)). It has also been mentioned that if it occurred at the beginning of the
period, then the amount is one dinar, if not, then half. Additionally, it is mentioned and
confirmed in al-Mabsut that if one says it is permissible to make love to his menstruating wife,
then he has committed disbelief.[(Maraky al-Falah ٨٩].


٥ Muwattah Muhammad ٧٥.


١٠٢ BOOK |: PURIFICATION





meaning the woman may not be approached until her menstrual period has
ceased, and this is at the end of ten days which is the maximum for a menstrual
Period, for if she sees any blood after ten days, it is not regarded as menstrual
periods, and for this reason intercourse is permitted without the major bath.!
However, the other reading recited with the shadda implies bathing which would
be read as[And do not approach them until they purify themselves}.'


Way ٦ bgeed plas Ball pesad gl Load y mans gh pact OF YI Yeale pl aig alaail ot Je V٥
SR Ly Legd gS Ley pally i an inj a pall abadil GU I gM ope DB ae ٥٢ ob
SNe Se > et dy


If however, the bleeding stops short of the maximum duration(for menses and
postnatal bleeding)by the woman completing her regular days, sexual intercourse
in not permitted unless one of the following three is satisfied:


i)she performs the major bath, or


ii)if she is unable to perform the major bath, then she is to perform tayammum
and pray even if it is a voluntary prayer, or

iii)until a prayer becomes due upon her. This occurs when the blood stops with
her regular periods(and she waits until the least amount of time from the end of a
Prayer passes upon her). This time must be sufficient enough to perform the
major bath and begin the prayer by saying 'Allahu akbar,' instead, she does not
perform the bath, nor does she perform tayammum until the time of that prayer
ends. In other words, when the blood of a menstruating woman stops and she has
enough time to either bath, or offer tayammum(with a prayer)before the time of
that prayer expires; though she does not do either of these and waits until the
prayer time finishes thus becoming a debt upon her, then she is permitted to have
Sexual intercourse. And as soon as the time expires(and the time of the new
prayer enters), sexual intercourse is permitted with her even though she has not
bathed or offered tayammum with a prayer. However, if this time is insufficient in
allowing the bath plus the saying of "Allahu akbar" for prayer(before the time
expires), then sexual intercourse is not permissible until she has a bath or waits
for the new prayer time to pass.


To reiterate through an example is the following: if the bleeding stops toward the
middle or end of the time of dhuhr and there is sufficient time for her to bath,
dress herself and say "Allahu akbar," then sexual intercourse is permitted when
the 'asr arrives. If there is insufficient time, then sexual intercourse is not
Permitted only until after sunset(or until she bathes).°


Bee ee ees a)Alikhtiyar ٤٥.

Al-Bagarah ٢٢٢.

" Maraky al-Falah ٩٠ / Radd al-Muhtar ٢/٤٠٣.

