٦٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION





Shafi'i disagrees with the ruling on the basis that it is not something that comes
out in the form of filth and is therefore not deemed as minor impurity in the case
of the funeral prayer and the recital prostrations. The Hanafi School held that the
funeral prayer does not consist of bowing or prostration which means audible
laughing in it, renders the prayer void though not the wudu. This is however,
contrary to a complete prayer that includes bowing and prostration(in which case
the wudu and prayer is void)." Note: smiling in prayer does not affect wudu or
prayer.
fle ye nae SL oi my

١٢/ If a man rubs a vagina with his erect penis without a screen(or cover)which
prevents the warmth of the body, ablution is void. The implication here is
rubbing, not penetration because if it is penetration then he will have to
undertake the major bath if the head of his penis disappears in the vagina. And
Allah knows best. Likewise, if a man with his erect penis touches another man's
penis without a covering or a woman with her genitalia touches another woman's
genitalia with sexual excitement and without a covering, ablution is void.' Note:
such acts are offensive and forbidden in the Islam, though the position of the
jurist is to provide a legal answer for a scenario should it ever occur.


٦ yop yas Vd
That Which Does Not Nullify Wudu
+t gl ats VeLtli te
There are ten things that do not nullify wudu;
Ale oe Jer deo a y٤h


١/ The appearance of blood that does not flow from its injury onto another part of
the skin does not break wudu.


ana A)Slay GH SAM GS SIS ٠٠ OM nb ope pt b yin
٢/ If a piece of flesh or scab is separated from the body without the flowing of
blood from its place, then it does not break wudu. The flesh or skin is pure and its
separation does not require purification provided there is no oozing of blood. An
example is a 'Madina blood vessel' that is termed 'rashta' in Persian. It is attributed
to the Madina of the Prophet because it was very common to them. A rashta is like
a polyp or a piece of flesh that hangs off the skin; it is also identified as a pimple


or blister upon the skin. If it is separated from the body without the flowing of
blood, then the ablution remains sound.


ly cr poEPeIAS





" Maraky al-Falah ٥٥.
* Maraky al-Falah ٥٦.

