BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٧


٢- Wadi(non-sperm male discharge)is describes as a white cloudy fluid that is
thick and warm and has no smell. It is released generally after urinating and
occasionally before.


JL pAl,


٣- The major bath is not compulsory, if one has a sexual dream but finds no
wetness upon awaking. And the females are like the males due to the words of the
Prophet who was asked: "Does a woman need to perform ghusl if she dreams?"
There upon the Prophet said "Yes, if she dreams and sees the fluid."!


Cw Glade ٠٣.٤٥٥ nF op OV ٥s
٤- Giving birth without visible blood does not obligate the major bath, since it is
not regarded as post natal bleeding[nifas]. Abu Hanifa maintained that as a


precaution she should perform ghusl on the basis that giving birth cannot be free
from a small amount of noticeable blood.


BAW! > p> ٥ pe SL % Se OL)٥- If a man inserts his penis in a woman's vagina, but there is a cloth(or clothes)that prevent the feeling of sexual pleasure, the major bath is not compulsory. It is
however, recommended to undertake the major bath as a precautionary measure


a> y


٦- Administrating medicine in the anus(such as a suppository)does not require
the bath.


cahedlaol jopey enol UeaLy


٧- Inserting a finger or something like it into the vagina or anus does not require
the major bath, and this is the opted view on the matter given the deficiency of
sexual desire.


Spl ne op dey sling eby,y


٨ / ٩- Having sexual intercourse with an animal or a deceased women without
discharging semen, does not obligate the major bath.


Jp ne PH LEIKI FA Kabel,


١٠- If a male penetrates a virgin, though he does not break her hymen and does
not discharge semen, the major bath is not compulsory. Note: we said earlier that
if the head of the penis penetrates a woman, that it obligates the major bath, but
in this case, the fact that her virginity remained intact confirms that the
circumcisable parts did not meet in a manner that would require the major bath
and that her hymen prevented the meeting of the private parts.'





" Bukhari ٢٨٢.
٢ Maraky al-Falah ٦٢.

