* BOOK IV - Fasting

° BOOK V - Zakat

« BOOK VI - Hajj and Umrah

« Glossary

- Sample Examination Questions


« Works Referred To


« Subject Index


٢٣
٢٤
٢٥
٢٧
١١٥
٢٨٣
٣١٧
٣٧٥
٣٩٧
٤٣٩
٤٤٥


٤٤٩


٤٦١


Introduction


Nur al-Idah is a broadly taught Hanafi text which entails vast areas of
jurisprudence, namely the rulings pertaining to worship. It leaves the student well
prepared to deal the entirety of issues from purification to hajj. It reveals in a
small way as to why the Hanafi Madhhab is held in such high esteem from
scholars all over the world. It is practical, sensible and can be used as a reference.
This book is based on the teachings of Abu Hanifa and his students, namely
Imam Muhammad, Abu Yusuf and Zufar; and provides the reader with an insight
into one of the most widely embraced Madhhabs by judicial systems in the world
today.


Format Of The Text


This text of Nur al-Idah presents the Arabic followed by its English translation in
bold text. Usually, explanation follows the bold text or is found within the bold
text itself. This is because such explanation is from Maraky al-Falah, which is the
explanation of Nur al-Idah. Both books are authored by the same person: Hasan
Shurunbulali. It should be noted that such explanatory notes are not in bold text.


Moreover, it has been my attempt to translate the text of Nur al-Idah in a manner
that can be read independently without reading the commentary or explanatory
notes, although at times - interpretation is essential in understanding the


meaning of the actual text. As previously stated, interpretation and comments are
by and large from Maraky al-Falah and at times from other Hanafi sources, such
as Hashia ibn Abidin, al-Ikhtiyar and al-Hidaya. Indeed, a translation may
simplify many things, though this will still require the complete and concentrated
attention of the reader. Furthermore, the position of other schools, such as the
Shafi'i Madhhab has been added in various places with the intent to give the
reader a broader perspective on matters and demonstrate the similarity between
the various schools of thought.


As any endeavour is undertaken in translating an Islamic law book, it is possible
as with all things to overlook fine points. However, in stating this, the reader
should keep in mind that every effort was exhausted in ensuring the translation is
an accurate one. Any scenario which posed any shade of grey was immediately
referred to numerous scholars and thoroughly investigated from the main Hanafi
sources, such as Hashia Ibn Abidin, Bahr ar-Ra'iq, Badai' as-Sanai', and al-
Hidaya. At times, such sources are referenced even when the matter is clear on
the basis of providing greater clarity and aiding the student to view the laws in a
different light enabling him to deal with legal rules in a practical way. Lastly, the
rule that is displayed in bold is the law. The other opinions mentioned in the
annotations and notes are not to be followed. They have been provided to teach
the reader figh(ie. legal reasoning). Therefore, the text in bold is the governing
and primary text.


No
The Rulings Pertaining To Jurisprudence[Fiqh]Persons who are morally responsible(mukallif)take one of the following rulings
in the Hanafi Madhhab.


١- The Obligatory[fard]. For the majority of scholars, fard and wajib are
synonymous, and both convey an imperative and binding demand regarding the
performance of an action. The obligatory is an act that is established by a decisive
text(dalil gati')whose meaning is decisive and not open to the possibility of
interpretation, such as the five pillars of prayer, and that which has been


established by way of Sunna Muttawatir, such as the recitation of Quran in
prayer.


The Hanafis however, have drawn a distinction between fard and wajib. An act is
deemed obligatory(fard)according to the Hanafis if it is conveyed in a clear and
definitive text of the Quran or sunna(known as dalil qati). 'Though if the command


to perform something is conveyed in a speculative text(dali! dhanni), then the act
is deemed necessary[wajib}.


It is compulsory to perform that which is deemed obligatory. One who performs
an obligatory act out of obedience to God is rewarded, while a person who
abstains from an obligatory act without a valid excuse makes himself liable and
deserving of punishment. The one who denies the binding nature of an obligatory
act becomes an unbeliever if it is established through a clear and definitive text(dalil gati"), but not if he disputes the authority of a command that is deemed
wajib, although he becomes a transgressor.


A consequence of the distinction between fard and wayib is that when the fard is
neglected in an act required by the Sacred law, the whole act is null and void. For
example; if one leaves out the bowing or prostration of the obligatory prayers, the
whole prayer is nullified, though if he leaves out the recitation of the Fatiha(which is wajib), the prayer is valid, but deficient.


٢- The Necessary[wajib]according to the Hanafi school is that which is
established by a firm command, but which has been established through a text
that allows for the possibility of interpretation. This textual proof is called dalil
dhanni. 'his type relates to acts such as sadaqah al-Fitr and the witr prayer. Verily,
these have been established by a speculative text(dhanni text]that is open to
interpretation. If however, the subject thing is established with a definitive and
clear proof[dalil gat'i], such as with a Quranic verse or hadith Muttawatir, then it
is deemed obligatory(fard)as previously mentioned. Denying that which is


necessary is deemed as corruption(fisq), though not disbelief. 'To leave a wajib act
is sinful.


The omission of wajib components of prayer does not nullify prayer provided it is
omitted absentmindedly and provided two forgetful prostrations are performed at


the end of prayer. If a wajib component of prayer is intentionally omitted, then
one is required to repeat his prayer in order to mend the defect.


ee a ee ee eee b>


The Mandub(Recommended Act)or Sunna


The mandub(recommended act)is divided into three parts; a)sunna mu'akkada,
namely, the emphasised sunan, b)the sunna whose acts have been sanctioned by
the Sacred law(nafila), though they are not emphasised, and c)sunna zawa"id
which refers to the acts and conduct performed by the Prophet as a human being
such as his style of dress and choice of food.


٣- The Emphasized Sunna[sunna mu-akkada]is that which our blessed Prophet((God bless him and grani him peace))or the Companions did most of the time with
respect to worship and did not leave it except on a rare occasion. Examples
include the congregational prayer, the adhan and iqama as well as all matters of
worship which the Prophet was diligent upon. This sunna is also termed Sunna al-
Huda.


The one who performs an emphasized sunna is rewarded while leaving it is not
punishable, though is worthy of blame and reprimand. Customarily leaving a
sunna is sinful, because it entail 'turning away' from the Messenger of Allah
whom we have been commanded to follow. If a person gives up such acts totally,
he is liable to lose his moral probity('adalah)which may result in the rejection of
his testimony. If a town collectively decides to give up these recommended acts,
then they expose themselves to legal and military action. Note; the congregational
prayer according to the Hanafi Madhhab is an emphasized sunna, whereas the majority
maintain that it is a communal obligation. Ahmad thn Hanbal maintained that it is
obligatory on each person to attend the congregational prayer.


٤- The Recommended Sunan(nafila), which is not emphasised(and which is also
termed mustahab(desirable), meritorious and voluntary)is that which the Prophet did
one or more times and then discontinued, and did not diligently perform, such as
the four rak'ahs prior to the 'isha prayer, and all other voluntary acts, such as
donating charity to the poor, fasting on the Monday and Thursday of each week."
The ruling for one who performs acts of this kind is that he is deserving of
reward, while leaving it is not sinful or blameworthy because it is not part of his
lawgiving.


Sunna Zawa'id are the acts of the Prophet pertaining to his ordinary daily tasks as
a human being, such as his dress, choice of food and drink as well as his dealings
and conduct with his family members. These are acts considered as part of an
individual's perfection by following the Prophet in such things. The rule for such
acts is that one who adopts them with the intention of following the Prophet, is an
excellence and is to be rewarded. This indicates one's love for the Prophet. But
someone who does not follow the Prophet in such matters is not considered a
wrongdoer and is not blameworthy in any way because they are not in the degree
of the sunan al-Huda(emphasised)as mentioned previously.





"Usul alFigh al-Islam, Wahbi az-Zuhayli ٨٤.


gn


A question from these categories is the following; Is it necessary to fulfil a nafl act
that was commenced but was not completed or is it not necessary? 'The jurists
differed on this point. Imam Shafi"i said; one is not required to perform the nafl
he commenced and neither is he blamed for its discontinuation, because the nafl
was legally introduced with that quality, and this does not impose the act upon a
person. Therefore, one is rewarded for its fulfilment and is not blamed for its


omission. And as long as it was introduced into the law with that quality, then it is
necessary that it remains as such even after it is commenced. He added that; it
cannot become a requirement because the reality of something does not change


by being commenced; and that it is preserved in its quality, which is nafl, whether
he completes it or nullifies it."


Abu Hanifa maintained that; nafl that is commenced becomes a requirement to
fulfil. For example; if a person begins a voluntary fast, but then ruins the fast, he
is required to make up that day even though it was voluntary. He held that if one
commenced a voluntary prayer or fast, he is required to accomplish it; and if he
does not, then he will become liable to fulfil it as gada(makeup). Abu Hanifa used
the following proof; Allah said[.and make not vain your deeds].' Abu Hanifa also
maintained that a nafl can change into wajib when one promises such an act. For
example, if one says, "I vow by God, that I will perform two rak'ahs of prayer,"


then he is required to perform them. Hence, the rak'ahs were voluntary, but
became wajib with the vow.


٥- The Permissible[mubah]is what the Law-giver has neither requested nor
prohibited, so the person who does it, is not rewarded or punished. Though such
acts are rewarded if the person intended good. It is also called halal. The mubah


mentioned in the text is usually expressed in words like, "It is of no harm to
perform ." or "It is no sin for you," and so on.


٦- The Somewhat Disliked[makruh tanzih]is that which we have been commanded
to leave, even though it is not sinful; meaning the law giver has interdicted but not
strictly forbidden. One who leaves it is rewarded, while one who does it has acted
sub optimally and is not deserving of punishment. Examples of such things that
apply to this category is the wudu from the leftover water of a cat or predatory


animal.[brahim as-Salkini says, "To leave that which is in indicative of the sunna
or that which is recommended - is somewhat disliked[makruh tanzifh].


٧- The Prohibitively Disliked(reprehensible)or unlawfully disliked[makruh
tahrim| is the opposite of wajib according to the Hanafis. It is an act that we have
been firmly commanded to leave through a text which is open to the possibility of
interpretation. Denying such a command is misguidance and worthy of
punishment, but not disbelief. Performing such an act is sinful. The above
division of makruh is based on the Hanafi opinion, while the majority of jurists
place makruh tahriman into the category of forbidden insofar as it is a demand for
omission expressed in binding terms.





! Usul al-Figh al-Islam, Wahbi az Zuhayli ٨٥-٨٦.
? Quran ٤٨:٣٣.


٨- The Forbidden[haram]is that which the Law-giver strictly forbids through a
decisively established text. Someone who commits an unlawful act is deserving of
punishment, while one who refrains from it out of obedience to Allah is rewarded.


o


eo ٠% of


"~f %!


®
e


The Validity of Following Qualified Scholarship(In the Subsidiary Issues)[Abdul Qahir al-Baghdadi states.| Any scholar of sound mind from Ahl as-Sunna
knows that when the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))spoke of the
disapproved groups that will dwell in the fire,' he did not mean the groups of
jurists who disagreed in the secondary matters[i.e. jurisprudence[figh]]who in
fact all agreed on the principle foundations and doctrine of belief. Indeed, the
Prophet separated the disapproved groups as being the people of misguided
desire who opposed the rightly guided group in the areas of justice, creedal issues,
divine oneness[tawhid|, the issue of God's promise and threat, about pre-
determination and ability and so forth upon which all of Ahl as-Sunna agreed
upon. Such issues were opposed by misguided groups like the Khawarij, Jahmiyya
and Karramiyya. Hence, the secondary matters in which the scholars of figh


disagreed upon(in relation to halal, haram and general rulings)is not subject to
this hadith.'


The history of taglid * — Imam Zufar, al-Hasan ibn Zayd al-Lu'lu'i, Abu Yusuf,
Muhammad ibn al-Hasan, Fudayl ibn 'Iyad, Ali ibn Mahr, Ali ibn Ja'd, Ibrahim
ibn Tahman al-Imam al-Hafiz, Yahya ibn Zakariyya ibn Abi Za'idah, Hafs ibn
Ghiyath, al-Qasim ibn Ma'n al-Mas'udi, Imam Layth ibn Sa'd and others were all
Hanafis. Before the year ٢٠٠ AH they were all ascribed to Abu Hanifah and
would give legal rulings[fatawa]according to his verdict. From this it is evident
that the foundation of following the judgment of a scholar[i.e. ¢aglid|]was laid


down before ٢٠٠ AH, though at that time it was recommended rather than
determined to do so. This became an obligation because of the shortcomings of
intellects and understanding and the scarcity of knowledge in the great majority


of people.


Accepting and following qualified scholarship and learning is deemed necessary
lo understand the complex interpretations of the Sacred Law. Century after
century, four schools have been relied upon by the People of the Sunna and


" 'lhe Prophet said, "Those who came before you of the people of the Book split into seventy
two sects, and this nation[ummaA]will split into seventy three sects of which will be in the fire
and one in paradise."[Abu Dawud ٤٥٩٧, Ahmad ٢/٣٣٢].

? See al-Farq baynal Furaq ٦-٧.[Kitab Sharh as-Sawi, ft-٢, p-٨٥].

٣ The definition of taglid according to the legal scholars: is to accept another"s statement without
demanding proof or evidence, on belief that the statement is being made in accordance with
fact and proof.


٠ ———— ee ed


Community[AhlezsSunna wal-Jama'a| to provide such interpretation. Following
qualified scholars hip facilitates the following of the Quran and sunna since the
layperson is not capable of issuing a legal opinion. In addition, the derivation of
rules from the Qwmran and sunna requires a careful and meticulous study which
cannot be undertaken by an unqualified person, and for this reason we are
required to follow those who are fit to do so.


The permissibilit-y of following the legal ruling of a qualified person is found in
the Quran as welll as hadith; God says[O you who believe! Obey Allah; Obey the
Messenger and tlhose of authority amongst you]." The authority in question has
been explained b y some, as Muslim rulers while others have viewed them as the
jurists. The latter view was the opinion of Abdullah ibn Abbas," Mujahid, 'Ata ibn
Abi Rabah, Hasan al-Basri and many others. Imam Ibn Qayyim says that
following the rulers is in effect following the scholars since rulers are also required


to follow scholars in legal issues. Hence, following rulers is subject to following
scholars."


God then says in the same verse[And if you dispute, then refer it to Allah and the
Messenger if yom really do believe in Allah and in the Last Day].* Scholars
maintain that Allah's subsequent statement, "If you dispute" proves that those in
authority are indleed jurists because He first ordered everyone to follow those of
authority and then proceeded to say that "If you dispute," then those of authority
are to refer the disputed issue to the Book of God and the traditions of the
Prophet. The un educated person is not an individual of knowledge; he is not of
this calibre, and -would therefore be unaware of how to refer the disputed issue to
the Book of Goci and to the sunna of the Prophet and how their proofs would


apply to situatioms and events. It is therefore established that the command is for
the scholars.


The Exalted states(Of every troop of them, a party should go forth, that they(who are left belhind)may get instructions in religion, and that they may warn
their people when they return to them, so that they may be aware(of evil)].° This
verse indicates in clear terms that a group of Muslims should devote themselves to
acquiring the kmowledge of the Sacred Law and all others to act upon their
instruction to awoid disobedience to God. Imam Abu Bakr Jassas comments on
this verse, "So Allah commanded people(who do not learn or not capable to


" Quran ٤:٥٩.
? The opinion of Axbdullah ibn Abbas has been narrated from Mu'awiyah ibn Salah from Ali


ibn Talha which is regarded as a very sound chain. Ibn Jarir Vol, ٥ page ٨٨.[The legal Status of
Following a Madhhnab].


* The Legal Status of Following a Madhhab ١٥.
* Quran ٤:٥٩.
> Quran ٩:١٢٢.


a


dedicate themselves to learning)to adhere to the instructions of a scholar and
enact upon their(expert)advice."


Moreover, being able to perform legal reasoning[ijtthad]requires knowledge of
the rules and principles of the Quran, the sunna[i.e. hadith], the knowledge of
scholarly consensus[ijma], and analogical reasoning[giyas], together with knowing
the types of each of these. Once a Muslim jurist has all the necessary
qualifications for ijtihad, he attempts his utmost to extract the actual meaning of
the Quran and sunna. If he does this to the best of his ability and with sincerity,
he is rewarded for fulfilling his duty, and no one can accuse him of disregarding
the Sacred Law.


Occasionally man learns the damaging effect of poison as well as the remedial
effect of medicines by virtue of adhering to professional advice without proof or
question. In warfare, if an army does not accept unquestioningly every order of its
commander, victory may not be attained. If various agencies of government do
not obey the laws promulgated by the law makers, then law and order cannot be
maintained in the land. In short, the development and perfection of our physical,
spiritual, intellectual, acadernic, moral and social life is firmly rooted in accepting
and following professional authority without demanding proof.'


Some maintain that followimg the school of an imam is unlawful and that a true
Muslim should only follow the Quran and sunna. They claim that one should
seek guidance directly from the Quran and sunna and no involvement of an
imam is required.


The reality of the issue is that by following a mujtahid, one is following the Quran

and sunna. The mujtahid facilitates the correct understanding of the Quran and

sunna illuminating the path for others. Moreover, the heart of the matter is that

the interpretation and derivation of rules from the Quran and sunna is one which

requires a concentrated and extensive study of all the Sacred sources of the law
which cannot be undertaken by an individual ill equipped to do so. If every
Muslim was compelled to consult the Quran and sunna on each problem arising
before him, it would burden him with a responsibility that would be almost
impossible to fulfil. This is owing to the fact that the derivation of the rules from
the Sacred Law requires a thorough knowledge of the Arabic language and all the
relevant sciences, a combination which every person is not able to have. It is
therefore necessary upon a person who cannot perform legal reasoning(ijtihad)to
follow the rulings that have been derived from the Sacred Law by a mujtahid. The
follower, in this case being a layperson cannot get caught up in the discussion of
proof. His duty is to adopt one of the jurists and follow his view in all matters.
This is because he is unable to perform rulings of that kind.


, Figh al-Imam.


es ee


To highlight some of the aforementioned points is the following. There are
certain commandments in the Quran and sunna which are neither ambiguous or
complicated and can therefore be understood by any person. For example, God
says[Do not backbite]." Anyone familiar with the Arabic language will
immediately understand this verse, since there is no ambiguity in the statement.
There are also verses of Quran as well as hadith where there is vagueness and
complication. For example, the Prophet said[Whoever has an imam, then the
imam's recitation is his recitation].' This indicates that while the imam is reciting
Quran in prayer, the follower is to remain silent. Though another hadith
mentions[There is no prayer for one who does not recite the Fatiha].' This
indicates that everyone is required to recite the Fatiha. The question arises as to
which hadith should be taken as the primary source. Freedom to practice upon
any hadith one sees, completely regardless of the fact that hadith literature is
spread over several hundred thousand, and contained in more than three
hundred compilations, would lead to distortion of the Sacred Law and result in
chaos and confusion. The reason this would be an inevitable result is because
understanding how to extract rules from the Quran and sunna is so vast an
enterprise that even if one spent a lifetime endeavouring to achieve this, it would
not be possible to expertise.'


Al-Baghdadi writes[As far as the Islamic rules are concerned, there are two types.
The first are those which are known by necessity to be part of the religion of the
Prophet, such as the five prayers, zakat, fasting of Ramadan, Hajj, the prohibition
of adultery, wine and so on. Taqlid is not allowed in these issues since they are
such that everyone should know and understand. The second type are those rules
which need to be understood and extrapolated, such as the details of the rituals of
worship, transactions and marriage. Taqlid is permissible in these issues since
God says[So ask the people of remembrance if you know not].


A medical doctor studies for years, after which he must acquire training under the
watchful eye of his piers before he is permitted to open his own practice. If he
endeavours to practice medicine without qualification, he will be incarcerated.
Therefore, since the fundamental principle is the derivation of rules from the
Sacred Law, it requires one who is capable of performing legal reasoning[ijtihad].
The task is in itself an exhausting and delicate procedure where qualified
scholarship is an absolute requirement.





* Quran ٤٩:١٢.

* Muwattah of Imam Malik.

° Bukhari

* The Legal status of Following a Madhhab.
> Quran ١٦:٤٣


$$ SSF


A person commits disbelief if he makes lawful that which God has made unlawful,
The matter is a serious one and cannot be meddled with. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[If a person does not know what is right judges
others with ignorance, then he will go to hell]. Therefore, the process of deriving
rules from the Quran and sunna of the Prophet requires a methodical, in depth,
and surgical analysis of all Sacred text; and not vague and formless study.


Furthermore, to give judgment from the verbatim reading of the sunna would be
equivalent to an untrained person performing surgery from an instruction
manual. Whilst a person may read something believing he comprehends it, the
context, understanding and knowledge concerning the hadith of the Prophet ig
another matter. Indeed, this is the fundamental point — the clarity of the law, ang
the derivation of rules. Ali((God be pleased with him))said "If the imam seeks to
eat, then feed him." Any person who reads this hadith will immediately assume its
literal sense; namely, the imam is hungry and seeks food. Though the correct
meaning is that if the imam becomes confused or forgetful when reciting Quran
in prayer, then prompt him. This example shows that the Sacred Law does not
only possess an outward meaning; rather, it possesses an outward and inward
meaning that requires clarification.


Abdullah ibn Amr narrated that the Prophet said[God will not snatch away
knowledge abruptly from people, but rather He will snatch knowledge by
removing scholars. This will happen to the extent that when no scholar remains,
people will take ignorant leaders as their guides. These leaders will be asked and
they will give legal rulings without knowledge. So they will be misguided and they
will misguide]." This clearly proves that giving a legal view is the job of a scholar,
People inquire concerning legal issues and they act according to the answers
given. This is the essence of taqlid.


Additionally, the school of an imam is not something parallel to the Sacred Law
or alien to it. In fact, it is a particular interpretation of the Sacred Law and a
collection of legal rules derived from the Quran and sunna by a reliable jurist,
and arranged subject-wise for the convenience of others. So, the one who follows a
particular school actually follows the Quran and sunna according to the
interpretation of a reliable jurist. Scholars have agreed that the teachings or set of
guidelines to be adhered to, is to be limited to four jurists, they are: Imam Aby
Hanifa, Imam Malik, Imam Shafi'i and Imam Ahmad.


The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Were religion to be
hung on the Pleiades, men from Persia would reach up and lay hold of it]indicating that matchless scholars like Abu Hanifa would emerge from Iran. In





' Bukhari


| a a ea a eS lee tal


addition, he foretold Imam Shafi'i saying[A scholar from Quraysh who will fill all
regions of the earth with learning].


The Exalted states[Ask those who recall if you know not]." By consensus of the
scholars[ijma{]this verse is imperative for someone who does not know a ruling of
Sacred Law or the evidence for it to follow someone who does. Virtually all
scholars have made this verse their principle evidence that it is obligatory to
follow the scholar who is a mujtahad.


Imam Suyuti in Tadrib ArRawit quotes Ibn Hazm's report that most of the
Companions' legal views came from only seven of them: Umar, Ali, Ibn Mas'ud,


Ibn Umar, Ibn Abbas, Zayd Ibn Thabit and A'ishah, and this was from thousands
of Companions.'


Furthermore, no age of history is totally lacking people who are competent in
ijtihad on particular questions which are new, and this is an important aspect of
Sacred Law to provide solutions to new ethical problems by means of sound
Islamic legal methodology in applying Quranic and hadith primary text. But
while in this specific sense the door of ijtihad is not and cannot be closed, Islamic
scholarship has not accepted anyone's claim to absolute ijtihad since Abu Hanifa,
Malik, Shafi'i and Ahmad. If one studies the intellectual legacy of these men


under scholars who have a working familiarity with it, it is not difficult to see
why.'


There are those who deprecate these jurists and claim ijtihad for themselves while
lacking the necessary qualifications. To claim that the mujtahid is not divinely
protected is a baseless argument due to the Prophet's saying[When a judge gives
a ruling having tried his best to decide correctly and is right, then he shall receive
two rewards, and when he gives a ruling having tried to decide correctly and is
wrong, he will have a single reward]. This clearly indicates that even if an error is
made it is still rewarded on the basis that the issuing of that ruling was made by
one capable of performing ijtihad. It also indicates the validity and permissibility
of following qualified scholarship. In contrast, a person who is not capable of
issuing a legal opinion and bases his ruling on ignorance is culpable. The Prophet
said in another hadith which is agreed upon[One who does not know what is
right and judges others with ignorance will go to hell].' To urge that a mujtahid is
not divinely protected is of little relevance to his work as the fact that a major


" Quran ١٦:٤٣.

* Tadrib al-Rawi fi Sharh an-Nawawi(y١٠٩), ٢.٢١٩.

٣ Reliance of the Traveller ١٨, ١٩.

* Reported by the four, and al-Hakim graded is as sound. Bulugh al-Maram, ١١٨٨, p ٤٩١.


a ee


physicist is not divinely protected from simple errors in calculus; the probability
of finding them in his published works is virtually negligible. "


Ibn Salah reports that there is scholarly consensus on its being unlawful to follow
rulings from schools of thoughts other than those of the four imams because of
the untrustworthiness of the ascription of such rulings who reportedly gave them,
there being no channels of transmission which obviate the possibility of textual
corruption and spurious substitutions. Additionally, God says[O you who believe,
obey Allah and obey the Prophet and those among you in authority].' As
previously mentioned, God has ordered that we obey Him and His Messenger. He
has also ordered that we obey those in authority. Meaning that when those in
authority agree upon a matter, it is compulsory to follow them and adhere to their
ruling. And in the same surah God Almighty threatens those who oppose the
Messenger and follow other than the believer's way. He states[Whoever
contraverts the Messenger after guidance has become clear to him and follows
other than the believer's way, We shall give him over to what he has turned to
and roast him in hell, and how evil an outcome}.'


Another evidentiary aspect is that a ruling agreed upon by all the mujtahids in the
Islamic Community is in fact the ruling of the Community, represented by its
mujtahids, and there are numerous hadiths that have come from the Prophet, as
well as quotes from the Companions, which indicate that the Community is
divinely protected from error, including his saying((Peace and blessings of God
be upon him))[My community shall not agree on error]. Al-Hakim also mentions
in a sound narration that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[God does not make my community agree on misguidance]."


One of the destructive evils which will raise its dreadful head by not following one
of the jurists is the appearance of self appointed mujtahids. Some will consider
themselves to be capable of inferring religious rulings, and embark upon the
process of analogical reasoning. They will consider themselves to be of equal rank
with that of the four main jurists. These people will in fact bring destruction to
others for the reason that they have acquired no qualifications, discipline and
correct understanding. This inevitably leads to the subjection of religion to
human desires. For this reason, one who does not know is required to seek from
those who do. Indeed, the Prophet said[The Scholars are the inheritors of the
Prophets].





" Reliance of The Traveller.
a Quran ٤:٥٩.

٣ Quran ٤:١١٥.

٤ Al-Hakim ١/١١٦.


ee eee


Adhering To More Than One Madhhab On Different Matters


Whilst all four schools of interpretation are correct and none can be held in
contradiction with the Sacred law, a question which arises is the following: Is it
permissible for a person to follow one school ona particular issue and then follow
another school on a different issue? It is only logical that a person who lacks the
ability to compare between the arguments of each school cannot pick and mix
between the different views to satisfy his personal desires for the reason that Allah
has categorically ordered in a number of verses in the Quran to follow the


guidance of the Sacred law and has strictly prohibited the following of one's
desires.


Take for example the bleeding from an injury: Abu Hanifa holds that ablution is
void while Imam Shafi'i does not. One should bear in mind that both imams did
not choose an interpretation on the basis of its suitability to suit their desires,
rather it was based on the strength of the evidence before them. In turn, if an
individual is allowed to choose any juristic view without conferring the argument
relating to those views, he will be at liberty to select only that which pertains to his
desires, something which is condemned in the Holy Quran.


Ibn Taymiyya stated in his fatawa that, "Some people follow at one time an imam
who holds marriage invalid, and at another time they follow an imam who holds it
valid. They do so only to serve their individual purpose and satisfy their desires.
Such a practice is not permissible according to the consensus of the imams."!
Hence, one should not pick and choose for one's own benefit. Once a person has
adopted to follow a Madhhab, then he should not follow any other Madhhab in
any matter, whether it is to seek convenience or to satisfy one's personal choice,
both of which are based on desire and not on the strength of argument.


Some people who have no systematic knowledge of Islamic disciplines are
deceived by their shallow knowledge based on self study. Following this kind of
exterior study, they assume themselves to be masters of Islamic learning and
begin criticizing the former Muslim Jurists. This attitude is not justified. The
extraction of judicial rules from the Holy Quran is a very rigorous process that
cannot be carried out on the basis of vague study. While studying a particular
juristic issue, one has to collect all the relevant material from the Quran and
hadith found in the diverse chapters and books and undertake a combined study
of the scattered material. One must examine the reliability of the relevant hadiths
in light of the well established principles of the science of hadith. One must study
the historical background of the relevant verses and tradition. In short, one must
first resolve a number of complex issues involved. This whole exercise requires
very intensive and extensive knowledge which is rarely found in the contemporary
scholars who have specialised themselves in the subject, let alone the common
people who have no direct access to the original sources of Sacred law.





" Fatawa Ibn Taymiya ٢: ٢٨٥-٢٨٦.


SSS


Abu Hanifa


Imam Abu Hanifa is an-Nu'man Ibn Thabit, the great imam, born in ٨٠ Ah. in
Kufa during the Khilafa of Abdul Malik Ibn Marwan. Abu Hanifa assumed the
role of a merchant. During this time, he was not linked to the field of knowledge
and did not know the men acquainted with it. One day a religious scholar[ash-
Sha'bi]noticed Abu Hanifa's intelligence and cleverness and advised him to
pursue the field of knowledge and attend his gatherings where he could derive
benefit from the opinions of the scholars. Ash-Sha'bi said to him, "I discern
alertness and energy in you." This affected Abu Hanifa and caused him to adopt
the advice and commence the pursuit of knowledge. He experienced the full
Islamic culture of his age. He memorised the Quran, knew an extensive amount


of hadith, grammar, literature and poetry. He then immersed himself to figh
becoming one of the greatest scholars in Kufa.


He quickly became known for his legal brilliance and problem solving and the
strength of his arguments in directing those to the reality. Imam Malik was asked
about Abu Hanifa in which he said « I have not seen anyone like him, by Allah if
he said that this pillar was made of gold, he would have brought an analogical
proof proving the validity of his case ». Imam Shafi'i said, "Whoever seeks to
become an ocean in the jurisprudence, then he should venture to Abu Hanifa. I
have not known a fagih like him." Equally, Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal would cry
when remembering Abu Hanifa and would supplicate Allah's mercy upon him.


An-Nadhr said, "The people were sleeping with regards to jurisprudence until
they were awoken by Abu Hanifa."


Abu Hanifa eschewed sleep at night and was called the peg as a consequence of his
perpetual standing for the prayer. He performed the dawn prayer for forty years
with the ablution of the nightfall prayer. His neighbours reported that they could
hear his prayers and recitation of Quran at night as he cried from the fear of God.


Abu Hanifa became famous for his genius, piety and minimal speech. He would
forgive those who harmed him and it was never known of him to speak ill of
others. He was generous with his wealth devoting his fortune to helping students
and researchers of Sacred law. He would never sit in the shade of a wall belonging


to someone he had loaned money, saying, "every benefit derived from loan is
usury."


Abu Hanifa said of himself{I take from the Book of Allah if I find the evidence
therein. If I do not locate it, I take from the sunna of the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))and his Companions. I use this information provided it is
transmitted through trustworthy individuals. If I do not locate it in the Book of
Allah or in the Sunna of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)), then
I take that which I choose from the companions or | leave it and I do not venture
into others people's sayings after that of the Companions. And just as the final
matter is dealt with by others such as Ibrahim, ash-Sha'bi and Ibn Sirin, then I too


give a legal view as they do]. He was the scholar of Iraq and the primary and
paradigm of the school of juridical opinion[ra 'i.


ee


During the reign of Marwan, an occurrence of discord occurred due to which a
man named Yazid Ibn Habira called for Abu Hanifa to assist. Abu Hanifa
strongly rejected the request and was consequently imprisoned and assaulted for
two weeks. Abu Hanifa was later asked to assume a leadership role for the
Muslims upon which he declined and was again imprisoned and severely
punished. His persecution was unending forcing Abu Hanifa to extreme cries of
pain and anguish. His life ended five days later. He died in Baghdad in ١٥٠A at
seventy years of age.


His Musnad[Ascribed Traditions]is comparable in size to the Muwattah' of
Imam Malik and the Musnad of Imam Shafi'i which the latter based their
respective schools upon. When one reads the Muwattah' of Imam Muhammad
Ibn Hasan ash-Shaybani the student of Abu Hanifa, one gains complete certainty
from the notes indicated to by Imam Muhammad that virtually every hadith
therein was familiar to Abu Hanifa before he arrived at the positions of his school.


This is a clear proof against those who would claim that Abu Hanifa did not know
hadith.


Abu Hanifa appeared in an age overwhelmed by hadith forgers and as a result
was moved by his extreme piety to reject any hadith that was not authentic, for
which reason he applied a selective range of hadith evidence in Sacred law. The
Hanafi school of thought does not accept qualifications of any ruling established
by a Quranic verse when such qualification comes through a singular channel of
transmission, even if it is meticulously authenticated. It is only accepted if it
comes through a hadith with three separate channels of transmission.


Hence, not only was Abu Hanifa a hadith specialist, the school reflects a legacy of
extensive use of analogy and deduction from specific ruling and gerneral principles
established by primary texts acceptable to the imam's rigorous standards, as well
as the use of inference and juridical opinion.


The Two Companions


With respect to Imam Muhammad, he is Abu Abdullah Muhammad Ibn al-
Hasan Ibn Farqad ash-Shaybani. He was born in Wasit, Iraq in ١٣١AH / ٧٤٨CE
and a companion and student of Abu Hanifa. He was a mujtahid of powerful
intellect who had a phenomenal mastery of Quranic and hadith primary texts,
and the matchless legal training of being educated by Abu Hanifa, Abu Yusuf,
and Malik. He was raised in Kufa where he first met Abu Hanifa, joined his
school of thought and became renowned before moving to Baghdad where he was
appointed by Harun ar-Rashid to the judiciary.


Imam Shafi'i said of him{I have not known a plump person of lighter spirit than
Muhammad Ibn al-Hasan. I have not seen anyone more eloquent than him. I used
to think when I saw him reciting the Quran that it was revealed im his language.
He further added, I have not seen anyone more intelligent than Muhammad Ibn
al-Hasan].


Ahmad Ibn Hanbal said « If there is agreement in any matter between three
people, then no one will pay attention to one who disagrees with them. Someone
inquired who are they? He answered Abu Hanifa, Abu Yusuf and Muhammad
Ibn al-Hasan»».


As for Abu Yusuf, he is Qadi Yaqub Ibn Ibrahim Ibn Habib, the Kufan. Abu
Yusuf was the student and companion of Abu Hanifa and the first to proliferate
his school. He was a hadith master and one of the most brilliant judicial minds in
Islamic history. He was the first to write works on the fundamentals of Hanafi
jurisprudence. Al-Dhahbi mentioned Abu Yusuf in his book Tadhkirat al-H uffadh


among those who are regarded as memorisers.


Al-Mazani said(Abu Yusuf of all people is the one who most follows hadith).
Ibrahim Ibn Abi Dawud narrated from Yahya that he said « There is not among
the people of theory anyone who knows more hadith nor is more authoritive than
him >>. Ibn Salah Samah said « Abu Yusuf would pray two hundred rak'ahs every
day after he was appointed Qadi ». Ahmad said(He was precise and just in
hadith).


The Author Of The Text Nur Al-Idah
Hasan Al-Shurunbulali


He was one of the greatest scholars of his time. He is Hasan Ibn Ammar Abu al-
Ikhlds al-Misry Shurunbulali born in ٩٩٤ A.H /[١٥٨٠ CE]. He was one of the
most distinguished scholars in jurisprudence and the greatest of his time and
regarded as the most brilliant and knowing in jurisprudence, primary text, and
base.


He became a master of jurisprudence at the hands of Abdullah al-Nahriri and
Muhammad al-Mahby. Imam Shurunbulali studied in the Azhar in Cairo and was
a source of great benefit for others. Other scholars, such as al-Mahby said of him
« He was the lamp and luminous shine of al-Azhar ». The Imam((God be pleased
with him))was a possessor of high moral qualities and an eloquence in the Arabic
language. He was an individual who abstained from anything which resembled
foulness and grasped to the religion of Allah. He authored a number of books for
the benefit of the people such as:


¢ Sharh al-Mandhuma Ibn Wahban consisting of two volumes.
© Nur al-Idah and Najatul Arwah, that is, this book.

* Tufatul Akmal.

* Hashia ala Kitab ad-Durar wal-Ghurar.


٢٦


DRRnnaDN a


The Chapter
of 'Purification


SC aT Ta |


٢٨ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


Weights & Measurements


The following weights and measurements have been used in this text. They have been
derived from various Hanafi sources: namely, Radd al-Muhtar(i.e. the Hashia of Ibn
Abidin)and Maraky al-Falah by Shurunbulali.


١ mudd = ١% ratl = ٥١٢ grams = ٠.٥١ litres
A mudd is a volume measure estimated in terms of weight.


١ Sa'[al-Hijazi]= ٥% ratl or ٤ mudd = ٢.٠٥ litres or approx ٣.١٧ or ٣.٢ kg. A Sa' isa
unit of volumetric measurement.


١ Ratl = ١٢٨ dirhams = ٣٨٤.٢٤٠ grams.

١ Dinar = ١ Mithgol = approx ٤.٣٥ grams

١ Mithgol = approx ٤.٣٥ grams

Qullatayn = ٥٠٠ ratl

| Dhira' = ٤٨ cm

٥ Awsugq = approx ٩٦٠ kg[١ Wasaq = ٦٠ Sa']The distant permitting one to be deemed a traveller = ٨١ km.
١ Farsakh = ٣ miles[or ٥٥٩٨ km]١ Mile = ٤٠٠٠ dhira' = ١٨٦٦ metres


١ Qirat = ٤ wheat grains


١ Dirham = ٢٠ girat = approx ٣.٥ grams


BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Book I: Purification
CONTENTS:


The Chapter Of Purification
That Which Is Permissible For Purification
'Types of Water
When Does Water Become Used
That Which Is Not Permissible for Ablution
That Which overwhelms The Water
The Rulings of Remnant Water « Su'r »


Utensils and Clothes
Investigating The Purity Of Utensils And Clothes


Wells And Their Purification


Istinja And The Necessary Actions Prior To Wudu
The Ruling Of Istinja
How To Perform Istinja
What Is And Is Not Permissible To Use
That Which Is Disliked To Use In Istinja
The Etiquettes Of Performing One's Need


Ablution
The Pillars of Ablution
The Reason For Wudu
Conditions That Obligate Wudu
Conditions That Validate Ablution
Fulfilling The Rulings Of Ablution
The Sunan Of Ablution
The Etiquettes Of Wudu(Recommended Measures)That Which Is Disliked In Wudu
Categories of Wudu
Nullifications
That Which Does Not Nullify Wudu


The Purification Bath « Ghusl »
That Which Obligates The Purification Bath(Major Bath)That Which Does Not Obligate The Bath
That Which Is Compulsory To Wash
The Sunan
The Etiquettes And Disliked Actions
The Chapter Of When Ghusl Is Sunna And Recommended
Occasions When It Is Sunna To Perform Ghusl
Occasions When It Is Recommended To Perform Ghusl


٣٦


٣٧


٢٩


BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Dry Ablution « Tayammum »


Conditions That Validate Tayammum

The Reason And Conditions That Obligate It

The Pillars Of Tayammum

The Sunan Of Tayammum

When To Delay Tayammum

Requesting Water

Prayer With Tayammum

Nullifications Of Tayammum

The Ruling Of The Wounded With No Hands Or Feet


Wiping The Footgear « Khuf »»


The Ruling Of Wiping The Khuf

Conditions that Permit The Wiping

The Duration Of The Wiping And When It Begins
Changing One's Status

The Portion Which Is Compulsory To Wipe And Its Sunna
Nullifications Of The Wiping

That Which Is Not Permitted To Wipe On

Wiping the Splint And The Like


Menstrual Period / Postnatal And Chronic Vaginal Discharge


The Types Of Blood

Menstrual Bleeding

Postnatal Bleeding

Chronic Vaginal Discharge

Pure Days Between Two Menstrual Periods

Forbidden Actions During Menstrual Periods and Postnatal Bleeding
That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Janaba[Major Impurity]That Which Is Unlawful In The State of Minor Impurity

Chronic Vaginal Discharge And Its Ruling

Nullification Of Wudu For One Deemed Excused

When Is One Deemed Excused

The Condition Required To Remain Excused

The Condition That Nullifies One's Exemption


Filth « Najasa » And Its Purification


The Types Of Filth

Examples Of Heavy Filth

Examples of Light Filth

The Degree Of Filth That Is Excused
Purification Of The Filth

Liquid Purifiers

Purifying The Hide Of A Dead Animal


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣١


i٥Ugla)| Ss
The Chapter Of Purification'
ol oo pebel ٥ ٩٢
That Which Is Permissible For Purification
tlie ame bee plas! ٥ ٩ Atoll!
The types of water permissible for purification are seven:
pall olay a soley all cley cI eley ged olay pall obey ol tt el


Rain water, ocean water, river water. Water from wells. Water from melted snow.
Hail water upon melting, and spring water. This is due to the saying of Allah[He(Allah)caused rain to descend from the heaven, to clean you therewithj;' and also
due to the words of the Prophet((Peace and blessings of Allah be upon him))[Water is pure and is not rendered impure by anything, except a thing that alters
its colour, taste or smell]. In addition there are the words of the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))regarding rivers[Its water is pure and the dead
things in it are permissible].


allt ¢Lal


The Types Of Water


Litt im Je olll
Water is divided into five types
GUL AW ya yey So nb poles jal Jy!


١/ The first type is water that is pure in itself, and is purifying for other things.
There is no dislike in using this type of water, which is plain water commonly
termed mutlaq water. This means that the essence of the water is pure and that it
can cleanse other things.


WE IS y ba gon y ٥ DI are cs Le gg oy So glee pale GUI,


٢/ The second type is water that is pure in itself and is purifying for other things,
although it is disliked to use because it is a small quantity of water that a cat or a
similar animal has drunk from.


" The term tahara(purification)is used in the Arabic language as cleanliness, regardless
whether it be in reference to something physical or spiritual. Allah the Exalted said(Take from
their wealth so that you might purify and sanctify them).(Quran: ٩;١٠٣]. The term tahara in its
juristic sense means; The ruling given to the place where prayer is concerned(place — meaning,
one's body, clothes and area where one prays), the cause being clean water or clean earth which
is deemed suitable for tayammum when there is no water.[Nur al-Idah].


; Quran ٢٥: ٤٨


٣٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


et peg Je ene MSE MI lode bd fects yay gle pt pb;


٣/ The third type is water that is pure in itself, though is not purifying for other
things. This is water that one has used to remove his minor impurity(either
through the process of wudu or bathing)or water used to make wudu upon with
the intention of attaining the pleasure of God. Verily, if a person already in the
state of wudu renews his wudu without intending the pleasure or nearness of God,
it is classified as wastage because one is already in wudu. In addition, when
making wudu upon wudu for the purpose of closeness to God, the second wudu
must be made at a different place to that of the first, otherwise it is regarded as
wastage(even if one intended nearness to God). If one makes wudu upon wudu in


the same place, it is disliked and the water from the second wudu is not regarded
as used water[musta'mal].


Moreover, nearness to God can be achieved by washing the hands before and
after eating given that the Prophet said "Wudu(the intended meaning is — the washing
of the hands)is a blessing prior to eating."' Therefore, if one washes his hands in
the state of wudu and intended nearness to God, the water is deemed used[musta 'mal]. If nearness to God is not the objective, the water is not deemed used.'


Furthermore, used water[musta'mal]is fit for the purification of physical filth[najasa hagigiyya| from the body or clothes, such as urine, pus and wine, but it not
purifying for major or minor impurity[hadath| and therefore unfit for wudu and ghusl.
Overall, the water used to remove one's minor impurity or the water used to make wudu upon


wudu(intending the pleasure of God)is deemed used water. It is not valid to perform wudu or
bath with this used water.'


e Sian oll Tr gs
When Does Water Become Used?
Andel -٥٦ aSlaail > pees Worrell press


Water becomes used right after it separates from the body. For example, a person
who is washing his arm renders the water used right after it separates from the


limb.
٤+ ٩٢ sj YL
That Which Is Not Permitted For Wudu
AE ٥ pat bop tee Jy ply tle EVs


One is not permitted to make wudu with tree water or fruit water(fruit juice)even
if the water flows out by itself without being squeezed, and this is the most
evident view on the basis that it has been mixed and is no longer plain water. An
example is the juice from grapes.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٣.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٣.
٩ Maraky al-Falah ١٣ | Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٢.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٣


ale one they sl bbb jel Vy


Likewise, it is not permitted to use water that has lost its essence(or nature)through cooking, or through the water being overwhelmed(or dominated)by
another substance. The nature of water is to be thin and easy flowing, and if it
loses this nature through cooking or due to a substance defeating the water, then
this change renders the water unfit for wudu, such as when one cooks lentils in
the water and allows it to dry, it becomes hardened, which then deems it invalid
to use. Note: water may be defeated by solid or liquid substances.


Ad OS
That Which Overwhelms The Water
heey iy ge Wl hep AL dase ELL,
Pm ٣٩٩٩ YS y OI Ab ٥S dalow YS silo yi pai per Vy


When mixed with a solid substance, the water is overwhelmed when it loses its
thin and easy flowing nature, in which case it is not fit for ablution. If however,
the water retains its flowing nature even after mixing with a solid, such as saffron,
fruit or tree leaves, it remains permissible to use even if the water loses all its
qualities such as colour, smell or taste. This means that if a solid such as leaves or
apples mix with the water, but the water retains its flowing nature, then it does
not affect the status of the water, even if some characteristics of the water change,
such as its colour. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))stated the
following words regarding the man who fell down from his camel and died[Wash
him with water and lotus leaves, and shroud him in two garments]." This indicates
that if objects such as lotus leaves fall in the water it is of no harm, for the water
has retained its essence.


apelin Dash Vy pabally Ol a)US dad lie y A)tle ye to ty cine yo gpl, SUSU LL,
Jets ox ٤ eb cr mes
When water is mixed with a liquid substance that has characteristics, such as
taste, colour and smell, the water is overwhelmed when the following occurs; there
are some liquids that have two characteristics, such as milk, which has colour and
taste but no smell. When one of these two appears in the water, it is regarded as
overwhelmed. Additionally, there are liquids that consist of three characteristics
such as vinegar, which has smell, taste, and colour. When two of these three
appear, the water is deemed overwhelmed. Hence, when one from two appears
and when two from three appears, the water is deemed unfit because it has been
dominated. Therefore, when liquid substances mix with the water, it is assessed by the


qualities of taste, colour, and smell and when solids mix with the water, it ts assessed by its
qualities of thinness and flowing nature.


" Bukhari ١٢٦٨


٣٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


LH Of U٥ NL ٠S Hut I pbs oN obey Joell US Itoy Y Gill itll Lal,


De Kanye ped gil ay ٥٩٦ V glad oye Jb parr tt ell op» orb,

In the case of water mixing with a liquid substance which has no characteristic to
it, such as previously used water or rose water that has lost its smell, then it is
assessed by weight. That is, if two ratls of used water mixes with one rat of plain
water(mutlaq), then ablution is not permitted with this water. If the opposite
occurs, it is permissible. Note: a raél is both a weight and a volumetric measure.
One ratl in Baghdad measure is equal to ٣٨٤.٢٤٠ grams. Two ratls are therefore
equal to ٧٦٩ grams. "


rd pte J pe ٩٩ le flay HUF NIST, OWS y dle ad > CUI ay rd ole aS


٤٣ a JI gle dol,

٤/ The fourth type is filthy(najis)water. This is a small quantity of still water into
which an impurity has fallen. The water is deemed impure even if no trace of the
filth appears therein. A small quantity of water is considered as less than ten by
ten arm lengths.' Note: water can be retained in a place that is either — square,
circular or rectangular as is seen in ponds and basins. If the place is square and
the length of each side is ten arm lengths(i.e. its area is ten by ten general arm
lengths), then it is considered as a large amount of water. If it is less, then it is
deemed as a small quantity. If the water is in a place that is circular and the
circumference is thirty six arms length, it is considered a large quantity of water.
If it is less, the water is considered as a small quantity. And with respect to a large
quantity, the depth is such that if one reaches into it to scoop up water, the base of
the water would not appear. Therefore, if one knows for sure or strongly believes
that filth[najis]has fallen in a small quantity of still water, then it is regarded impure,
even if no trace of the filth appears therein.' Though if the water is considered as
a large quantity of water, and an impurity falls in — it does not become filthy
unless the trait of filth becomes noticeable therein; and this is the soundest view.'


With respect to this type of water, it is not permitted to remove pAysical or legal
filth with it. As for Shafi'i, he held that the small quantity of water is restricted to
less than gudlatayn(i.e. less than ٢١٦ litres);? so that if the water reaches gullatayn(i.e. ٢١٦ litres)and an impurity falls in, though no sign of its colour, taste or smell
become apparent, then it is deemed pure, given that the Prophet said[If the water
reaches quilatayn(or ٢١٦ litres), then it does not carry filth].° If on the other hand,
the signs of filth do become apparent in ٢١٦ litres of water, then it is deemed


" Maraky al-Falah ١٦.[See page ٢٨ of this text for weights and measurements].

* An anm's length is considered as being from the tips of the fingers to the elbow(٤٨cm).

* Nur alIdah ١٤.

* ALFigh al-Islamy ٣٣.

? Qullatayn which the dual word of gulla equates to ٥٠٠ ratl in Baghdad terms.

% Reported by the five, and Ibn Habban graded it as sound. Moreover, the meaning of '/t
does not carry filth,' means that it does not become impure.[Fiqh alIslamy ٣٤].


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٥


filthy. However, the Hanafis explained this hadith of qudlatayn stating that the
narrations conflict in this regard; for some state when the water reaches one qulla
and some state three and some state forty.'


c٢٧ HOS sT ab SV, be glad by bole ol
If however, an impurity falls in running water and the signs of filth appear in it,
then it is deemed impure. The signs(or traces)of filth are taste, colour or smell.
Though if the filth is not evident or noticeable, then wudu is permitted because
the filth does not remain due to the flow of the water. Note: running water is one


that is not used repeatedly, such that if one scoops up water once, it will not be the
same water when one scoops it up the next time.


pa BT gle es SL yng ey gg GN Steele ld,


٥/ The fifth type of water is that which is doubtful with respect to its purifying
other things, and not with respect to its actual purity.? This is water which a
donkey or mule has drunk from. This doubt will be explained shortly.


re Sl bad
The Rulings of Remnant Water[Su'r]'
Lg pny pl dul fo ٠٩K Ol yr aro ١٣ Pal ely


If an animal drinks from a smal]amount of water, the remaining water is called
su'r, and there are four categories:


aad Sp be gh ٣ ol palace tle yay gle pale : JI


١. The first type is water that is pure in itself and is purifying for other things and
this is the water that a human drinks from, provided there is no filth in his mouth
at the time, such as alcohol; or water that a horse drinks from, for the leftover


water of the horse is pure according to the majority, or an animal whose meat is
lawful for consumption.


ie phe oe et ah pb gb NS G٢ gay Slated jt Y pd GI
tly spas


٢. The second type is filthy water that is not permissible to use. This is water that


a dog, pig or predatory land animal, such as a cheetah, fox or wolf have drunk
from.


; Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Silkini ٣٤.

? That is, the doubt does not pertain to the purity of this water; rather, the doubt pertains
to whether it can purify other things.

* Su'r is known as the remainder. Legally, it is the small quantity of water which remains
after a human or animal have drunk. This means that the water of a river or ocean cannot
be termed sur even if thousands of people or animals drink from its water.


PANS pbal Flame y SHSM dle y ٥ Al ٥ yg one ogy ee Sel oy Ke SIU,


wm aI EWS(Spl Sty y)Lably Cra ly


٣. The third type is water that is disliked to use in the presence of plain water.
Meaning if plain unmixed water is available, it becomes disliked to use this type
of water. This is the leftover water of a cat, stray chicken, predatory bird such as
an eagle, falcon and glede as well as animals that tend to be located in or around
the home such as a rat or snake, though there is no dislike in using the leftover
water of a scorpion. The reason for a stray chicken is because it is free to roam
and one cannot be sure if it has eaten something filthy or not. If however the
chicken is caged, then its leftover water is not disliked. Moreover, with respect to
why predatory birds are in this type and their difference to predatory animals, is
that predatory land animals drink with their tongues, and this is wet with saliva
that is deemed impure, whereas predatory birds drink with their beak, and their
beaks are bones which are pure.


ee pb peciy gle gone dt ١ ob lt Bed pe pay rth GAR IN
٤. The fourth type is water that is suspect(doubtful)with respect to its purity.
This is the left over water of a mule or donkey. If there is mo other water
available, then one is permitted to make ablution with this type and then make


tayammum, followed by prayer. The reason one also observes tayammum is
precautionary in case the wudu is not accepted due to the water.


tly GIVI spall d pad
Investigating Utensils And Clothes
rly ٣٢ Ws Fo plb ls si oti bet
If some pots containing clean water are placed near some pots that contain filthy
water, though the majority is clean, then a person is required to investigate that


which he can use for wudu and drinking. Note: A person may investigate for
drinking out of necessity.


we UY! ٦ pen ¥ Les be ssi ols oly
If the majority are filthy, then a person investigates the matter only for drinking.
This may arise due to necessity such as extreme thirst in a distant place where one


fears for his life. This being the case, the person is exempt from having to
investigate the water with respect to wudu because the majority is impure.


Leos gil alb Le ٢٥l OS ele ٥ eee daa OL G,


With respect to clean clothes mixing with filthy clothes, one must investigate to
determine which items are to be worn regardless if the majority of them are filthy
or clean, for it is better to pray in clothes that are completely impure, than to
perform prayer naked.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٧


La pgs y LVI olsol ٣ ad
Wells And Their Purification
Pe gh po bai Ny Ye oe - CN Ly - Soles Epi peal Nes


All the water is to be withdrawn from a small well if an impurity falls in, even if
the impurity is small such as a drop of blood or alcohol. This is because a small
impurity renders a small quantity of water impure, even if it does not visibly
appear in the water. Though this rule excludes a small amount of dung, for the
reason that a small amount is unavoidable and is therefore ignored. However, it is
not ignored in an excessive quantity. The reason a small amount is ignored is
because the mouths of wells are generally not covered and cattle drop their dung
around them and these are then cast into the wells by the wind.


Led eat gh BLE sl IS ms gary ell aad res dh Ct Ny ner Eyes


Likewise, all the water is to be withdrawn if a pig falls in the well, even if it comes
out alive and its tongue did not touch the water. The reason for this is that all
parts of the pig are deemed impure, so any part of the pig that touches the water
instantly renders it filthy. Also, if a dog, sheep or human die in the well, then all
the water is to be withdrawn. It is reported that when a man died in Zamzam
water this is what Ibn Abbas and Ibn al-Zubair(God be pleased with them)ordered with many of the Companions present with no objection. Equally, with
respect to the dog, death is conditional because it is completely pure with the
exception of its tongue; which means if the dog does not die in the well and exits
the water with its tongue not touching it, then the water remains pure."


ler par d Seg Bley lee shy dl ym Cll,


Furthermore, all the water is to be withdrawn if there is a dead bloated animal in
the water, even if it is a small animal, for the reason that its filth has spread into
the water given the fact that it is bloated which indicates it has been there for a
while. If it is not possible to withdraw all the water, then it is necessary to expel
٢٠٠ buckets of water from the well. Note; the buckets are to be of average size,
usually the bucket used for the well itself.


Nolo on te HD aps shi YS Sb OL yl yo CI Fed pu slip shoteo kd ib
goin; Le My Hatt, ٢b aye AUS OMS,

If however, a chicken, cat, or something of the like dies in the water, then ٤٠

buckets must be withdrawn. If a rat dies, or something of the like, then ٢٠ buckets


are to be withdrawn. And this action of taking out the water purifies the well,
bucket, rope and the hand of the person cleaning the well. This is the verdict from


Imam Abu Yusuf and Imam Hasan.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٣.


٣٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Bye oF go ht Vol gl BU e ٢ ONY]dy Sy Jt pol pS pa Vy


The water of the well is not made impure with the dung of camels, sheep,
horses, mules, donkeys and cows etc., unless a large amount is visible or
unless there is a situation that in every bucket, there is dung present in which
case all the water is to be withdrawn.
pynasy eles su lll ia Vy

Likewise, the droppings of pigeons or sparrows do not ruin the well-water, i.e. the
birds that are lawful to eat, because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))thanked the pigeon and said[Verily, it nested on the door of the cave until
I was safe, and may Allah reward it with the masjid as its home]." And Ibn Mas'ud
wiped away the droppings of a bird with his hand. This is the opted view in many


of the Hanafi books. The dispute between the scholars pertains to the droppings
of birds that are not lawful for consumption.'


Al ٩ ٩٥٣٩ LI Gry lll Ol yoy FAts y eS ٤٣٥ J Po Voow Vy


The death in water of a thing that does not have blood flowing through its body
does not render the water impure such as a fish, frog, aquatic creature, mosquito,
fly, wasp, scorpion, or the like. According to Shafi'i it does pollute the water.'


ne Eley sls Se Ey Vy doles wis fe oS dg > oF BL ot Sly pol ein Wy


col S٣٩


In addition, the water is not ruined with the falling of a human into the well or
the falling of that which is lawful to eat,' provided it comes out alive and there
was no filth present on the body when it fell in. Likewise, the water is not ruined
with the falling of a mule, donkey, and predatory bird into the well, provided they
exit the water alive and this is the soundest view.


aaS> Je]Ul Ll ait old roy oly


If the saliva of the animal touches the water, then the water is judged according to
the animal; meaning, if the saliva from a sheep touches the water, then the water
is assessed according to the sheep - which is pure, but if the saliva of a dog touches
the water, then we assess the water according to the dog which results in its being
deemed filthy. Hence, the water is ruled based on the animal.


MLSs ٦٥٢ cre pms Ug Ce Ol p> oy ٩٩


" Tabarani ٢٠/٤٤٣.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٥.
* Al-Hidayya ٢٩.


٤
Such as a camel, cow or sheep.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٩
If there is a dead animal in the water and no-one knows how long it has been
there, it renders the water impure for one day and one night; meaning the people
must repeat one day and night of prayer if they used that water to perform wudy
from.


٤٦ B٩٥ y plu dol Sl » Pll OW eiray


If the animal is bloated(swollen), then the water is ruled impure for three days
and three nights if no one knows when the animal fell in; meaning the People
must repeat three days and three nights of prayer provided they used this water to
make ablution from or used the water for the major bath. Note: if the animal is
bloated, this indicates that it has been in the water for some time and for this
reason the water is deemed impure for three days and three nights. If however the
people only used the well-water to wash their filthy clothes and not for wudu, then
they need not repeat their prayers, though they must wash their clothes again.


+ ٠ Sl Le ett OS ey ole G[rad
Istinja? And That Which is Required Prior To Wudu
gh glade sl ecocsll gl tll Le]Gale > fe al sabes dy SS a٢ ee Lee Jo Meh
J yl ety Sy ٥p take o> ep NU G٩ Ald yt Vy oe


On passing urine, a person must ensure that the leakage of urine has stopped and
his mind is satisfied concerning the issue. This is achieved through one's regular
habits, such as walking, coughing, or leaning on one's side. The woman is not
required to do this. She is to wait a small time and then clean herself. It is not
permissible to begin wudu until one is satisfied that the leakage of urine has
stopped.

tl VI SS


The Ruling Of Istinja
CPL sales de kN oe CF rs op Se ele Wy


Istinja is sunna when the filth that exits from the private part has not spread past
the boundary of the outlet. For example; if a person defecates and the faecal
matter does not smear beyond the perimeter of the anus, then istinja is sunna.
This applies to male and female.


٢ Fi om Al be a١٥ Ly UL Ij)my pm pal ٥ OLS ٥ LE OL,


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦.


* Linguistically, istinja is to wipe or wash the place where excrement is discharged.
Excrement is the term given for that which exits the bowel. According to scholars of
jurisprudence, it is the removal of filth with water or the like.


٤٠ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


If the filth crosses the boundary of its outlet and is equal to the size of a dirham,'
it is necessary to remove it with water or with a liquid cleanser such as rose water.
And if the filth passes the boundary of the outlet and is more than the size of a
dirham, then it is obligatory to clean with water.


Additionally, when a person is observing the major bath from post intercourse
discharge, menstrual bleeding and postnatal bleeding, it is obligatory to wash the


filth in the exit passage, even if it is a minimal quantity. One is not to exert
difficulty upon himself when undertaking this cleaning.


pnts pd cemed edly oll Gy aall Pad y oT UL Pally opty Gu re es Ol ey


pd Ul le parts ol jt
It is sunna to perform istinja with a clean stone or the like provided it is not rough
such as burnt clay and not valuable, and washing with water is superior than
simply wiping the filthy area. Whereas the best method is to combine between
washing with water and wiping. Hence, the individual wipes, and then washes.
And it is permitted if a person uses only one method; meaning, if one restricts the
cleaning to washing only, it is permitted and vice versa.


Le ٩٩ lo telat fea Ot Lai glared OWL nd BIS pe eV yds gla VIG oaally[nll lai]Ey


The sunna is to purify the area, and to use a prescribed number of stones is
recommended, and not an emphasized sunna, and the recommended number of
stones to use is three, even if the area is cleaned in less than that. Imam Shafi'i
said that three is necessary due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[Perform istinja with three stones]. The Hanafis rely on the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[Whomever
cleaned, then he should clean in odd numbers, and whoever observed this, has
done well and whoever did not, there is no blame].'


How To Perform Istinja


BYs dahl ols ١٣١ als


If the males scrotum is hanging loosely(or stretched), then the procedure of
istinja is as follows: one is to wipe with the first stone from the front part(near the
testicles)through to the rear, and with the second from the rear to the front, and
with the third from the front to the rear, and this is the etiquette. Moreover, the
reason this procedure is related with a long scrotum is because it is recommended
to conclude the wiping at the rear so that the filth is not brought to the front and
spread all over due to the long scrotum.


" A dirham = ٢٠ qirat with respect to solids(or approx ٣.٥ grams)and with respect to fluid, the
size is equivalent to its area(or the expanse of a large coin). Maraky al-Falah ٢٨.
* Abu Dawud ٣٥.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٤}elas SI abe oy cdg BY ne CIS Oly


If however, the scrotum is not hanging loosely, then one is to begin from the rear
to front because in this situation, cleaning can be optimally achieved.


gr Pte gh Ett WE I pli oo egal tt,
The female is to begin from the front to the rear, for fear of defiling her vagina.
chal ole gl awl I Cool bly UL fod Ua ٠٥ UL YI oy Jenks!


After wiping, the male is to first wash his hand because if he first touches the
soiled area while his hand is dry, it may soak the faeces into the skin; thereafter,


he is to rub the soiled area with water using the inside of his finger, two fingers or
three if needed.


Bam ly ane]Le pats Vy ٠ pay dana: od ele Wi ela! Gad Jo ghee Marne! be Juans


The male is to raise his middle finger over the other fingers at the beginning of
the istinja, and thereafter is to raise his ring finger forward, as it insures optimum


cleaning. The male is not to restrict the cleaning to only one finger because
cleaning will not be optimally achieved.


BAU! J pram ٢٢> clisl Lee gull bu gly le par deuai al II,


The female is to raise her ring finger along with her middle fingers
simultaneously at the start of istinja for fear of being sexually aroused. This means
that the woman uses the majority of her fingers when she begins.[she ٣S Jo sand Let by dy SU oul Ni chs o> ikl J ley
One is to perform the utmost in cleaning the area until the foul smell is gone, and
is to thoroughly relax the buttocks or hips in order to clean what is in the passage
to the best of one's ability, though this relaxation of the buttocks(and hips)is
performed provided one is not fasting, and the basis for this is that there is water


present around the anus which will nullify one's fast if it enters, and one must be


cautious not to allow their wet finger from entering the private area, otherwise,
the fast breaks.(glee ol ١٣}eal fo Gtate ars y Ll ody font t» las


When one finishes from cleaning the soiled area with water, the hand is to be
washed for the second time and the buttocks are to be dried before standing if the
person is fasting, because if one is fasting and the buttocks are wet, it may be
drawn in when standing which could nullify the fast.


٤٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


StL liad She dado Slay cas hye Vlog cele Vlg ٥٩٤ Ld bead


What Is and Is Not Permitted To Use In Istinja
And What Is Disliked At The Time Of Relief


pl ٨)dl ٢٢٥ ٥ t Y


It is mot permitted to expose the private area[awrah]for istinja during the
presence of others. If there are onlookers, then istinja is performed under the
clothes. If one uncovers the private area in the presence of others, he is regarded
as an immoral person[fasig}due to its unlawfulness.


SE y ٦ aby jp Le dey ١٣]Ball ane cera Von pill pi oj gle oly Yr F ee oj slZ ١
OMe cp AE Ey I ٨S AS cp IY


If the filth crosses the boundary of one's exit passage and is greater than the size
of a dirham, prayer is not valid if there is something available to remove the
impurity, such as water. One is to do his best in removing the impurity without
exposing the private area to onlookers.


tlaxw Via o SL


That Which Is Disliked To Use In Istinja
dene ٣ wey elabs pe tla! oy


It is disliked to use bones and the food of humans or animals because it is deemed
as waste and because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))prevented us from doing so as he said[Do not perform istinja with faeces or bones,
for it is food for your brothers of the jinn]and he said[Do not waste, do not
waste]."


se eV)sal dhs chai y cle BSS ٦ FE oot Gara clrda pry es aly


It is disliked to use baked bricks and anything made with fire, such as tiles, as well
as earthenware, charcoal, glass, gypsum and items of value or respectable such as
silk or cotton. It is disliked to use the right hand unless there is a valid reason.
Salman said[The Prophet forbade us from cleaning the private parts with the
right hand, and from cleansing with less than three stones, or cleansing with dung
or bone].' The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[When
anyone of you urinates, he must not touch his penis with his right hand, and when
he goes to relieve himself he must not wipe with his right hand, and when he
drinks, he must not drink in one breath].?


" Reported by an-Nasai ١/٧٢ and Ibn Majah ٤٢٤ - The Book of Purification and its Sunna.
* Bukhari and Muslim ٢٦٧.
* Abu Dawud ٣١.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٤٣


The Etiquette Of Performing One's Need(Adab
Sg AS pee MOU ys il dary ٥ pall abe A Jory


One is to enter the lavatory with the left foot and is to seek protection in Allah
from Satan the rejected before entering. The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[The cover between the eyes of the jinn and the private parts of
the children of Adam is when the person enters the lavatory, he says, "In the
name of Allah"]." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[The evil ones of the jinns are present, so if anyone enters the lavatory, he should
say, 'I seek refuge with Allah from the unclean spirits, male and female'}."


٨٩٩ pA)VY]AS Vy pln Je lara ley


One is to sit leaning upon his left side and is not to talk unless there is a need.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[When two persons go
together for relieving themselves uncovering their private parts and talking
together, Allah the Great and Majestic, becomes wrathful at this action].


Le Sly Le lscel y ALi Land ly F ٠ Sy


It is prohibitively disliked to face the qibla at the time of relief and to turn around
giving it one's back even if the toilet is within a building. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[If the need to defecate arose, then do not face the
qibla, and do not turn around giving it your back, however turn east or west.'


peally oeecdi OTe Shaul y
To face the sun or moon directly is disliked because they are great signs of Allah's
creation.
cle


To face a blowing wind is disliked at the time of relief because the filth is likely to
be blown back onto one's body or clothes.


pally Ul bb yas ghd ole Sy


It is disliked to urinate or defecate in water even if it is flowing, and the same
applies in a place of shade because it may be a rest area for other people.


Sail, asl,


" At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ٦٠٦.
? Abu Dawud ٦.

> Abu Dawud ١٥.

* Bukhari ١٤٤.


٤٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


It is disapproved to urinate or defecate in a hole, on a road or a cemetery as the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said: "Fear the two that are
cursed." They inquired, "Who are those that are cursed O Messenger of Allah?"
He said, "The one that relieves himself in the road or walkway of the people or in
their shade."!


bated mee Sy
To relieve oneself under a fruit tree is disapproved.


she WS٦ J sls


To urinate standing is disliked unless there is a reason, such as an injured back. It
is also disliked to urinate in the place of wudu due to the onset of satanic whispers
which may be brought on by such a practice and because there is prohibition
from exposing the private parts whilst standing as Anas(Allah be pleased with
him)said[If the Prophet wanted to attend to a need, he would not lift his clothes
until he was close to the ground]."


* One is to exit the lavatory with the right leg because it has more right to be
advanced when exiting such a place.


BUley ٥١ ge ail GAN ab ١ I pa


- One is then to say, "All praise be to Allah, the One who has repelled harm from me and
protected me." And the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said at the
time of exiting[I ask your forgiveness].'





" Muslim ٢٦٩.
* At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ١٤.
* Abu Dawud ٣٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٤٥
+ yd all a pas


The Chapter Of Wudu(Ablution)The Messenger of Allah(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "When a
person performs ablution and rinses his mouth, his wrong deeds fall from it. As
he rinses his nose, his wrong deeds fall from it. When he washes his face, his
wrong deeds fall from it until they fall from beneath his eyelashes. When he
washes his hands, his wrong deeds fall from them until they fall from beneath the
fingernails. When he wipes his head, his wrong deeds fall from it until they fall
from his ears. When he washes his feet, his wrong deeds fall from them until they
fall from beneath his toenails. Then his walking to the masjid and his prayer give
him extra reward."! Allah the exalted said in relation to wudu[O you who believe!


When you prepare for prayer wash your faces and your hands(and arms)to the
elbows; Rub your head(with water)and(wash)your feet to the ankles].'


¢ pb gh Als JI
The Pillars Of Wudu
att bay dele yd sil OLS |
The pillars of wudu are four; and these are its obligatory features:
CB fares Gy Lea ody SFL fad Mgt cela Lise oye Vb ote y cae git Lei VI


The first of these is to wash the face, due to the saying of Allah((Wash your
faces)),' and its limit length wise, is from the start of the top of the forehead(typically from the hairline)to the bottom of the chin. And breadth wise, its limit is
the area between the two ear lobes. The definition of washing is that at least a
couple of drops should flow from the limb.


ap rad J: Gly
The second is to wash the hands with the arms(and elbows)once.
٤S t at), jb : KS,


The third is to wash the feet with the ankles as the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))once observed some people performing ablution while their


heels were dry. He then said[Woe to the(dry)heels from Hellfire. Perform
ablution in fulll.'


" Malik, an-Nasai and Ibn Majah.
٢ Al-Maida ٦.

٣ Al-Maida ٦

' Abu Dawud ٩٧.


٤٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ly em ails


The fourth pillar is to wipe a quarter of the head as the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))wiped the front of his head."


+٦ Som
The Reason For Wudu
BV Ga: oy FV Seg ug yt Se pay VW[EV Gall ey


Its reason is to make lawful those actions that cannot be valid except with wudu.
This is its ruling pertaining to this life, while in the hereafter; it is the attainment
of rewards.


٧٢ Nora by
Conditions Which Obligate Wudu
CALs & sll y fist yey b pty


The conditions that render wudu obligatory are sanity, maturity, and Islam. Note:
the immature and insane person are not subject to the commands of the Sacred
law. A'ishah related that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said
"The pen has been lifted from three; "A sleeping man, until he wakes; an
immature person until he attains maturity and an insane person until he is
restored to his senses."" Likewise, if one is not Muslim, he is not subject to the
Sacred law with respect to prayer. Additionally, maturity is attained when one
experiences a dream of a sexual nature. Though if this does not occur, then one
Hanafi view maintains that he attains maturity at the age of fifteen years as is the
opinion of the two disciples(Abu Yusuf and Muhammad)as well as Imam Shafi'i
and Ahmad. Another Hanafi view maintains that it is at eighteen years, as is the
view of Ibn Abbas. However, the fatwa issued on the matter is according to the
view of the two disciples.°


ISI ell Jl arul ae ٨ AS ٩


Additionally, one must have the ability to use a sufficient amount of water to
wash the required limbs at least once. Note: not having water or needing it due to
a necessity negates one's ability; for there is no ability unless there is water. In
addition, having the ability means to have a sufficient amount for wudu. If one does
not possess this quantity, then it is like one who does not have water.
Furthermore, if one has water but has no rope by which to extract it from a well,
then he is not legally able to use the water.


" An-Nasai, Muslim-The Book of Purification ٢٧٥.
* Ibn Majah ٢٠٤١.
* Rawai"ul Bayan, Shaykh Muhammad Ali Sabuni ٢٠٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٤٧


Being in a state of minor ritual impurity obligates wudu because the performance


of wudu for one who is already in the state of wudu is not required. Likewise, the
absence of menstrual periods and postnatal bleeding requires the performance of


ablution.

٥ SN Gey
When there is inadequate time left for the obligatory prayer, the wudu must be
made immediately. Note: at the beginning of the time of prayer, one has an


extended time in which he can make wudu and offer prayer, though when the
time is cramped, this obligates the wudu immediately.


t po yl dn b ٣ rp
Conditions That Validate Wudu
OW crnw b ry ٣
The conditions that validate wudu are three;
J tbl! eUlL ٣ pol e pee
١. Pure water is to reach the complete outer skin, and if the area of a pin hole
remains in which water does not touch from the parts that are obligatory to wash,
wudu is not valid.
Sms platy a> cp ably le plaal,
٢. The things that are incompatible with wudu must cease before commencing
wudu, such as menstrual periods, postnatal bleeding and minor ritual impurity.


For example, if there is urine or blood which flows at the time of wudu, it is
invalid.


prery Cats tenth SW poy ear dlyiy
٣. One must remove objects of dirt that prevent water from reaching the body,
such as wax or fatty grease; the same applies with nail polish, paint, or glue.


+o gh olSol EG pai
Fulfilling The Rulings Of Wudu
a gay be col GUS dal ale fe(Uo pe! Ge)OF
It is obligatory to wash the visible part of a thick beard, and this is the soundest
view upon which the fatwa is given. A thick beard is one that covers the skin,
which prevents others from seeing the skin of the face. And the reason it is
obligatory to wash what is apparent is due to its thickness that has now taken the


place of the skin of the face. Hence, the obligation passes from the skin to the
beard. It has also been mentioned that washing a quarter of the thick beard or


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧.


٤٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


wiping it suffices. Some held that it is sufficient to wash or wipe one third of it,
while others maintained that its ruling is like that of a small beard. However, the
view in the bold text above is the correct one. Furthermore, in Arabic text prior to
this paragraph, the author of Nur al-Idah used the word wajib instead of
obligatory, though what he meant in this particular instance is obligatory as was
made evident in his explanation in Maraky al-Falah.


Sat oN ٥ py Sf oll Slay(٤٢ te: od OHS


It is obligatory for water to reach the skin of a person with a small beard, one of
the reasons being that it is easy to wash and poses no hardship.


Ca te ck oye SUI Le SEV y am gil ٨ slo pe atl pe fee all Sf ell Jes! Ut Vy


It is not necessary for water to reach the hair that stretches from outside the
border of the face." And neither is it necessary for water to reach the section of
the lips that is hidden when the mouth is closed during wudu because what is
unseen is linked to the mouth and what is apparent is linked to the face.


Sa)ry TS lll ay Lb IS gl LGV)badd Abad JI i Leal
tls je(٢ sil


If the fingers are tightly held together in a manner that prevents water from
flowing in between them or the finger nails have grown over the finger tips and
prevented water from reaching the tips or if there is something which prevents
water from the skin such as dough, it becomes obligatory to wash it after
removing the obstruction.


apg Cel le py Oslo Vy


Substances such as insect dropping, the dung of fleas and things of the like do not
prevent water from reaching the skin. The washing is valid in the presence of such
things.


Goal EI Ob Fes


" That which is outside the perimeter or bounds of the face is not required to be washed.
Ibn Hajar explains in Sharh al-Minhaj: that which grows at the lower part of the chin is not
required to be washed, because when it grows, it will be outside the perimeter of the face.
As for what grows on the perimeter, one is required to wash what is within the perimeter
and not the excess outside the border; and likewise, the hair which grows within the
bounds of the face upon the cheeks is required to be washed, though not the surplus(outside the bounds). It is for this reason that al-Badai' states that the correct view is that it
is compulsory to wash the hair that meets with the cheeks(i.e. that which meets with the
perimeter)and that which is apparent on the chin, though not the extended part of the
beard outside the perimeter. According to Shafi'i, this is required.[Radd al-Muhtar ١/٢١٥].


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٤٩


It is mecessary to move around the tight ring during wudu on the basis that it
prevents the water from reaching the skin; and when the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))performed wudu, he moved his ring."


Uged dandy Si el pat fo ol Ip]Sle ale Git Leos Jy


If the washing of cuts on one's feet would cause harm or pain, it is permitted to
pass water over the medicine that is placed on the cuts.


ei sbey opt pal LAN Ys ail> tay ail and yo fo LaIY, a lobe Vy


One is not required to repeat the wiping on the place of the hair after it has been


shaved, and neither is one required to repeat the washing after cutting his nails or
moustache.


+٢ gl ope Oly b fad
The Sunan Of Wudu
Lt ees G
There are eighteen practices that are sunna in wudu;
cre MM cpt ne


١ — Washing the hands to the wrists prior to performing wudu. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((If one of you awakes from sleep, he
should not dip his hand in the container until he washes it three times, for verily
he does not know where his hand was)).?


٢ — To begin with the tasmiyyah, which is "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is
no prayer for one with no wudu, and there is no wudu for one who does not
mention the name of Allah on it]. The meaning of the hadith here is the denial of
perfection. In addition, there is a narration from the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))that the tasmiyya is to say: "In the name of Allah, the Magnificent
and all praise be to Allah for the religion of Islam." In addition, if one says at the
beginning of wudu, "There is no god except Allah," or "Praise be to Allah," or "I bear
witness that there is no god except Allah," then one has fulfilled the sunna.*


odd ee a TL Sy clan! § SN,


" Ibn Majah, The Book of Purification and its Sunna ٤٤٩.
? Muslim ٢٥٢.

> Abu Dawud ١٠١.

* Al-Madhahib al-Arba'a, vol.١, ٦٢.


٥٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


٣ — It is sunna to use the siwak(the brushing of the teeth with the stick)at the
beginning of wudu, even if it is with the finger when the siwak is not available.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((Would it not be a
burden on my nation, ١ would have ordered them to use the siwak at every
prayer))."


٤ Vy UW Lanually


٤ — To rinse the mouth three times is sunna even if the three mouthfuls are from
a single handful of water. One is deemed as having fulfilled the sunna of gargling
thrice, even with these actions. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[When one performs ablution, he should rinse his mouth].'


ob FO GLEN,


٥ — To run water in the nostrils with three separate handfuls of water is sunna.
Meaning, one is to use three new handfuls of water when rinsing the nostrils.


eslall J GL y daeall gL,


٦ — During the rinsing of the mouth and nostrils, it is sunna for one to increase
the depth of rinsing provided he is not fasting; that is, one gargles further down
near the throat when rinsing the mouth and runs water further up the nostrils.


glint -po cle BS US AAD Le,


٧ — It is sunna to pass the fingers through the bottom of a large beard with water
on the palm of the hand. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))observed this when he made wudu(in that)he took a handful of water underneath
his throat and he ran his fingers between his beard. Thereafter, he said[This is
what my Lord has ordered mel. It is said that Abu Yusuf held this as sunna, while
Abu Hanifa held it as permissible."


qe! Jld y


٨ — It is sunna to interlace the fingers on the basis of the Prophet's order. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If you make wudu then
interlace the fingers of your hands and feet].* This is done by passing the fingers
of one hand through the fingers of the other. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[Whoever does not interlace his fingers in water, Allah will
interlace them in Hellfire on the Day of Judgement].°


Saal Etsy


" Muslim ٤٨٧.

? Abu Dawud ١٤٤.

٣ Al-Hidayah١٢.

* At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ٣٩
* Tabarani ٢٢/٦٤.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥١


٩ — It is sunna to wash the limbs three times. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[Performed the acts of ablution once and said, "This is the
obligatory requisite of ablution." He then performed each act of ablution twice
saying, "This is the ablution who God grants a double reward." He thereafter
performed each act thrice and said, "This is my wudu, the wudu of the Prophets
before me."]."


٥ ceokh Hl Slaels


١٠ — Wiping the entire head is sunna due to the report that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))[Performed wudu and wiped his entire head].'
Imam Shafi'i holds that the sunna is to do so thrice with water renewed each time.
Our argument is that Anas((God be pleased with him))performed each act of
ablution thrice, but performed the wiping of the head once. He then said, "This is
the ablution of the Messenger of God"((God bless him and give him peace)). This
is a sound tradition.'


ot Mele gy Og٥YI ey


١١ — To wipe the ears, even if it is with the water used for the head is a sunna
practice as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The ears are
from the head]. However, Shafi'i disagrees with using the same water for both
limbs.


AU


١٢ — To rub the limbs with water is sunna. This is known as dak, and other than
Malik and Imam Awza'i, no other jurist held it obligatory.


Yl


١٣ — Washing the limbs successively without pausing between them, such that in
normal weather the last part would not dry before one began the next.
aly

١٤ — The intention of wudu is sunna. Though Malik and Shafi'i said that it is
compulsory because it is an act of worship which is not valid without it, as in the
case of tayammum. Our argument is the words of Allah[O you who believe!
When you prepare for prayer wash your face.]and there is no mention of
intention. Abu Hanifa said if one does not intend, then the wudu is valid, but the
rewards are less. Another argument is: the reason it is obligatory in tayammum is
because the soil is not an original source where by one can attain purification. It is


"Ibn Majah ٤٢٠.

? Bukhari ١٨٥.

. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٠.
* Abu Dawud ١٣٤.


٥٢ BOOK !: PURIFICATION


therefore essential to make the intention to render the soil pure, whereas with
wudu, purification has been achieved through a purifying substance, namely
water. "


aS b SLs dil a٣ |S Silly


١٥ — The chronological order of ablution is sunna as Allah mentioned them in
His book, while Imam Malik and Imam Shafi'i held it as obligatory. This means
that to begin ablution with what Allah mentioned in the Quran is sunna[Wash
your faces, and your hands(and arms)up to the elbows; rub your heads(with
water)and wash your feet up to the ankles]. The reason in our view as to why it is
sunna and not obligatory is because of the letter waw' which is mentioned in the
verse. The Hanafi school held that this indicates union without restriction by
consensus of the experts in language. On the other hand, Imam Shafi'i held, that
it is the letter fa' which creates a binding command for what follows.'


wl Nl pies gel ٩٩٠٣ ld delat,


١٦/١٧/ — It is sunna to: i)begin with the right when washing the limbs, ii)to
commence the washing from the tips of the fingers and toes of the feet and iii)with respect to the head, to begin the wiping from the frontal part. A'ishah
reported that Allah's Messenger loved to start from the right hand side in
purification as he purified himself.' Additionally, Abu Hurairah reported that
Allah's Messenger said[As you perform ablution, begin it from your right hand
sides].*


eb Y <٥ I mes
١٨ — It is sunna to wipe the neck, not the throat.
does Vda Ol: fay


It has been said that the last four mentioned acts(namely point ١٥, ١٦, ١٧, and ١٨)are recommended, and not sunna.


" An example of how one may attain wudu without intending is by inadvertently falling in
a river or the like during which the parts required for wudu become wet.

? Al-Hidayah ١٤.

٧ Tbn Majah ٤٠١.

* Tbn Majah ٤٠٢.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥٣


٦ ~ Jl AI ٣ ao
The Etiquettes Of Wudu(Recommended Measures)Literally, the word adab means to put something in its correct place. In its juristic
sense, it is considered as that which the Prophet performed once or twice. This is
also called nafl, mustahab, mandub and tatawwu'. The one who undertakes its
performance is rewarded though is not blameworthy for its omission.


et he date pe gl lal
There are ١٤ practices that are recommended in wudu;
CB ٢ Ss ٣ ow ght


١/ To sit on an elevated place for the reason that one should avoid the used water
and allow it to flow away without splashing back onto one's clothes or body.


Ua JLenly


٢/ Facing the direction of prayer for it is superior regarding the acceptance of
supplication during the ablution.


one oun Yi ples


٣/ The third is not to seek assistance from others in performing wudu so one may
rise in worship alone without the help of others.


tl ers Alsi ees


٤/ To abstain from talking in a manner of the general speech of people which is
devoid of remembrance as this distracts a person from making supplication the
Prophet has taught us((God bless him and grant him peace)).


٥/ To unite the intention of the heart with the verbal utterance of the tongue.
ppl ele,


٦/ To make supplications which have been transmitted from the Prophet,
Companions and Tabi'in is recommended.


pas JS v٦ daly


٧/ To say, "In the Name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate" at the time of
washing or wiping each limb.


sil Cle Go pat Sal,


" Maraky al-Falah ٤٦.


٥٤ BOOK |: PURIFICATION


٨/ To insert the little finger within the opening of the ears. This is performed in
order to increase the area of wiping.


gelato Z,


٩/ To move around the wide loose ring to ensure optimum cleaning is among the
desirable practices of wudu.


١٠/ To gargle and draw water into the nostrils with the right hand and withdraw
the nasal mucus with the left hand.


pylall CaN I> JS poy


I١/ Performing wudu before the time of prayer has entered is from the etiquette
of wudu, though not for a person who is excused." The issue of a person deemed
excused is detailed in due course.


ody lgL OLY,


١٢/ To recite the two declarations of faith after the completion of wudu while
standing. The Prophet((Peace be upon him))said[If anyone of you performs
ablution and performs it well, and when he finishes ablution, he utters the words
'I bear witness that there is no god except Allah and I bear witness that
Muhammad is His servant and Messenger; all the eight doors of Paradise will be
opened for him, he may enter through any of them].'(BG «pb gl Judi oe oe eal
١٣/ To drink from the remaining water of wudu standing is a recommended
practice of wudu; meaning, one is to drink from the remaining water he
performed wudu from and do so standing facing the qibla or one may sit because


the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Drank standing from the
excess of wudu, the water of Zamzam].'


ce pba ope pled y Cull ce lend pg: Uy aly
١٤/ Upon this, it is recommended to say, "O Allah make me from among the repenters


and make me from those who are pure."[Allahuma ij'alni min at-tawwabin waj'alni minal
mutatahhirin}.


"A person deemed excused is one who suffers from a chronic ailment such as continuously
breaking wind and therefore unable to maintain wudu for the time needed to perform an
obligatory prayer. One is therefore excused and permitted to pray even while he/she suffers
from the condition during the prayer. Therefore, the observance of wudu prior to the prayer
time entering is not for such a person.

* Abu Dawud ١٦٩.

* Bukhari ١٦٣٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٥٥


eps Moly So ٩ fad
That Which Is Disliked In Wudu


cs daw +? poo Sy
Six things are disliked in wudu
Ug GIy

١/ To waste water is disliked, due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))to Sa'ad when he passed by him whilst he was making wudu[What is this wastage, O Sa'ad?]in which he replied: Is there wastage in wudu?
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Yes, even if you were at
a flowing river]."


ad pois


٢/ It is disliked to use very little water to the extent that one uses hardly enough
that it nearly becomes like wiping. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[The best of matters is the middle course].'


wer Soy


٣/ To slap water on the face is disliked for the reason that the face has honour,
and it should be performed gently, as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said((Do not hit the face)).'


٤/ To speak words of general speech, namely, that which is devoid of the
remembrance of God, is disliked as it entails distraction from supplication.


pdt pb cp ops Gla VI


٥/ To seek assistance from others without a reason is disliked. Umar((Allah be
pleased with him))said: I saw the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))pouring water to make wudu, so I moved so that I could prepare that for him
when he said to me, "Stop, O Umar - for verily ١ do not need anyone to help me
with my prayers."*


de ele ates,


٦/ To wipe the head three times using new water each time is disliked, because
wiping is only performed once.


" Ibn Majah ٤٢٥.

٥ Reported by al-Baihaqi ٢٦١.

٣ Abdu-Razak ٩/٣٣٣.

* Related by Abu Yahya in his Musnad ١/٢٠٠.


٥٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


+ ٢ gl Lal G Lai
Categories Of Wudu
plLudl OU Le + ٢ sll
Wudu is divided into three types
Al shy OL wl Ly oy HSI Sto BLL ia)y MG CIS gh y SH Stall be oo ٥: Uy


The first type is that which is obligatory upon one in a state of minor impurity
who wishes to pray even if the prayer is a voluntary one, or is a funeral prayer, for
indeed it is still a prayer even though it is not a complete one. It is obligatory for
the prostration of recital and for one who wishes to touch the Quran, even if it is
only one verse that is written on a paper, dirham or wall as Allah said in the
Quran[None shall touch it except those who are clean]."


The second type is that which is wajib for the tawaf of the ka'bah as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The tawaf around the ka'bah is like
prayer except that you may speak, and whoever speaks should not speak unless it
is good].'

aghe ds glial yo are dard! yo ole be oo ytee SIU,


The third type is that which is recommended on different occasions, namely;
when one wishes to sleep in a state of purification, or when one awakens from
sleep or so one can continuously be in a state of wudu. Other occasions include, to
touch the books of Islamic law, not the books on the interpretation of the Quran.


troll Jeo pe sll


It is recommended for one in a state of wudu to refresh his wudu with the
intention of attaining rewards and closeness to God and provided that when one
makes wudu for the second time, it is performed in a different place. The reason
being is that performing wudu upon wudu from the same place is disliked if acts
of worship are not performed between them, for this is deemed as wastage.


dare y IS y Mf Sey


It is recommended after back biting, lying and after slander, which is to carry
tales spreading corruption upon the earth.


potaltily tbs JS,


" Al-Wagi'a, ٧٩.
٢ At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Purification ٩٦٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION $٧
t is recommended after every mistake including the i

vudu expiates small sins. The Prophet((God bless him a Sak
There is not a person who committed sin and then performed[wudu]and
hereafter observed prayer seeking Allah's forgiveness except that Allah forgives
١im], then the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))recited the ae
And those who, having done an act of indecency or wronged their own souls
-emember Allah and ask for forgiveness for their sins}."


Teall cle yagiy[t is recommended after laughing loudly outside of prayer. The reason this is the
case is because to laugh loudly in prayer nullifies the wudu and prayer; hence


when it is done outside of prayer, it portrays a resemblance and is therefore
desirable to make wudu.


alms Ley


It is recommended after washing a dead person or after carrying him. The


Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whoever washed a deceased
he should observe ghusl, and whoever carried him should perform wudu}.'


He cis;


It is recommended to make wudu for the time of every prayer whether one is in a
state of purification or not. Anas((God be pleased with him))reported that the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed wudu for every prayer
whether he was pure or not." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him sea)also said[For a man who performs ablution in a state of ablution. ten a
deeds will be recorded(in his favour)}.* ;


atl Joe ٥,


It is recommended prior to the major bath(ghusl). Aishah(Allah be pleased with
her))reported that[If the Prophet performed the major bath from junub, he began


by washing his hands, before placing his hands in the container. then he observed
wudu, like the wudu for prayer].° :


erst pty jl cc Onl,
It is recommended when a person in a state of mjor ritual impurity desires to


eat, repeat sexual intercourse or sleep. A'ishah(Allah be pleased with her))reported((If the Prophet was in a state of janaba and wanted to eat or sleep, he





" Al-Imran ١٣٥.

٢ Abu Dawud; The Book of Funerals ٣١٦١.
٣ At-Tirmidhi ٥٨[Maraky al-Falah ٥١].

' Abu Dawud ٦٢.

> Muslim ٣١٦.


٥٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


made wudu, the wudu he would perform for prayer))." The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[If anyone approached his spouse, and then
wanted to repeat sexual intercourse, then he should perform wudu between
them].'


aa
In a state of anger, it is recommended to make ablution. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said((Anger is from Satan and the Shayatin are


created from fire, and verily you extinguish fire with water, so if any of you
becomes angry, he should perform wudu)).'


oss


It is recommended when one wishes to recite Quran from memory; and as
discussed earlier if one intends to touch the Quran, it is compulsory to perform
ablution. .


alyyy Cudmy


It is recommended for the reading of hadith and when narrating it based on the
honour it has been given and what it represents.


ele alo
It is recommended for the studying of Sacred knowledge due to its status.
Lbs y ULL, lil,


It is recommended for the adhan and tgama of prayer as well as for a sermon,
whether it is a Friday sermon or a sermon on marital relations or other.


ply ale ail fro Us abs


When visiting the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))it is
recommended to observe wudu.


٣٣ Aly Laxall Crs ry br ds ٩٥


It is recommended when standing on Arafah, and for the running between the
Safa and Marwah in hajj because of the esteem they have been given.


١٩٥% pt JSIy


" Ahmad ٣/٢١, Muslim ٣٠٧.
? Ahmad in his Musnad ٣/٢١.
* Abu Dawud ٤٧٦٦.


BOOK ١: PURIFICATION ٥٩


After eating camel meat it is recommended to make ablution. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))was asked about wudu after eating the meat of
the camel, and he said[Make wudu from it]." Note: The Hanafi view on this
matter is such, so that one is free from the disagreement of the scholars, such as
the view of Imam Ahmad who held it as a requirement.


Al pal pao ١٣١[Sel GE ye oy Sly
It is recommended to make wudu after any act which is subject to disagreement,
so that one can be free from the differences of the scholars, such as the touching
of a female. Note: touching a female does not nullify wudu, whether she is a
believer or not, but in order to avoid the differences of the scholars, it is
recommended. In addition, it is preferred to observe wudu if a person touches his
private part with the palm of his hand even though this does not break wudu,


since Shafi'i, Malik and Ahmad said, "Whoever touches his private part must
perform wudu.""


spd gl ail
Nullifications Of Wudu
Labi te le we Sl aly
Twelve things nullify wudu, and they are;
ce ba Vs tt pe ee


١/ Anything that exits from the front and back passage nullifies wudu except the


air which comes out from the front passage(of a female)and this is the most
sound view.


٠٢ Ab)ne Cp FOV watt y
٢/ Giving birth without seeing blood nullifies ablution. Imam Abu Yusuf and
Imam Muhammad said: "This is not classified as nifas(postnatal bleeding)because in order for it to be deemed as such, there must be blood. However, she
must make ablution due to the wetness and dampness." Though Abu Hanifa said,


"As a precaution she is to perform the major bath." Note: it is rare for a woman to
give birth without the sight of blood, though if it does, the wudu breaks.


TI SUA pe op Wl ley

٣/ The flowing of an impurity such as blood or pus from anywhere else other than
the two passages nullifies wudu. Imam Shafi'i maintained that whatever comes
out of the body, from other than the two passages, does not nullify wudu. The


Hanafi basis is the report of the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)"Ablution is from all types of flowing blood."*





" At-Tirmidhi; the Book of Purification ٨١.
٢ Maraky al-Falah, ٥٢.
* AlAyni, vol, ١, ٢٦٢.


٦٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Te Je SV)pill ae Salas Ve gay pil Lo ١٣]By sl gle sl ele sl pla «J


٤/ Vomiting a mouthful of food and water, blood clots or bile nullifies wudu,
provided the vomit is a mouthful. And the definition of a mouthful is that the
mouth cannot be shut except with difficulty and this is the correct view and the
way of the ten who were promised Paradise and the best of the Tabi'in such as
Hassan Al-Basri and Ibn Sirin. It has been established that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))vomited and thereafter performed wudu."
Indeed, this was the way of the ten promised paradise.' Moreover, the Prophet,
"Perform wudu from seven things: from the leakage of urine, from all flowing
blood, vomit, from das'a(a spurt of vomit)which is a mouthful, from sleeping
while lying on one's side, the audible laughing in prayer and the emission of
blood."*

aoe AENN٣| ٦ UG ite ant y
٥/ If a person vomits a few times and the cause is the same for each time, then
these several occurrences are deemed as one occurrence, and if the addition of all
these occurrences of vomiting equate to a mouth full, then ablution is nullified
according to Imam Muhammad,' though according to Abu Yusuf, he maintained
that if the place where he vomited was the same, then his ablution is void,
otherwise it is not. As for the mucus which descends from the head, it is not an
annulling factor by agreement of the scholars since it is pure. And the fatwa is in
accordance with this.

ol sl gh Stj JI de Ue poy

٦/ If one's saliva is overshadowed by blood(from an injury in the mouth)or the
blood is even with the saliva, ablution is void. If one sees that his saliva is red or
yellow, then it is regarded as overshadowed. Though it has been said that a light
colour of red makes it even whereas a strong colour of red dominates it. In
addition, the blood which descends from the head invalidates wudu because it
flows even if it is minimal. This is agreed upon. Likewise, the runny blood which
rises from the internal area of the body is an invalidator of wudu and the majority
held this view.


IW cp Banal ab Sad ١ ٦ sis


" At-Tirmidhi ٨٧.

? Maraky al-Falah ٥٤.

* Az-Zayla"i fi Nasb ar-Rayya ١/٤٤ and Ibn Hajar fi ad-Darayya ١/٣٣.[Maraky al-Falah ٥٤].

' For example, if one vomits a small amount(not a mouthful)because of a stomach virus
and then shortly after vomits another time because of the same cause, in this case the
virus, then the two occurrences are regarded as one, and if the addition of both equate to a
mouthful according to a person's estimation, then wudu is void. If on the other hand this
person vomited a second time because of a different reason, such as coughing thereby
causing one to vomit, then it is regarded as a separate incident.


* Maraky al-Falah ٥٤


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦١


٧/ To sleep in such a way that one's buttocks are not firmly set on the ground,
renders the wudu void. This occurs when a person sleeps while he is in a sitting
posture, though his buttocks are not firmly fixed, resulting in the nullification of
wudu.


Maraky al-Falah states. According to the Hanafis, the sleep itself does not invalidate
wudu owing to the fact that it is not impurity; rather it is due to the sleeping
person not being able to remain free from that which breaks wudu. This is the
sound view concerning the issue contrary to Shafi'i and Hanbal. Likewise, if one
undertakes a light sleep in a manner that one hears those who speak around him,
then the wudu remains sound. Though if one does not hear, then wudu is void.!


Moreover, in the Hanafi school, wudu is rendered void by sleep in three cases: to
sleep on one's side, back or one of the hips. The reason wudu is void is because
one is not firmly set due to the relaxation of the muscles and joints. As for
sleeping in the sitting posture where the buttocks are firmed set on the ground,
then the wudu remains sound. Likewise, one's wudu remains sound despite
sleeping in a standing posture, bowing posture or a proper prostration pose(as
done in prayer), because in these postures, one is flexing or gripping his body(though if one's body collapses in any of these postures, the wudu is void). The proof that
sleep does not invalid wudu except while lying down is the saying of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)"Wudu is not imposed except on the one
who sleeps lying down; for if one lies down, his joints and muscles relax."? Abu
Hanifa compared this to the postures of lying down on the back or hips, because
the cause of deficiency is found and it is the relaxation of the joints which is
present in both positions.'


lal § bi ١ of, atsil JG Sb stads play
٨/ The elevation of one's buttocks from the floor while one is sleeping and before
one becomes aware, nullifies the wudu even if one does not fall over. And this is


the evident view in the Madhhab on the basis that as soon as the buttocks are
elevated in a state of unawareness, ablution is nullified.


prs erg elély
٩/١٠/ Losing consciousness(fainting)/ temporary insanity / and drunkenness all
nullify wudu.
Beall oye be cy Fl dead gly > prey £٩٥٥ Id Dee J Uae, IL <pigs
١١/ Ablution is void if a mature conscious person laughs loudly in a prayer that
includes bowing and prostration even if he intentionally laughs in order to leave


the prayer. The same applies even if done forgetfully. With respect to audible
laughing; it is that which is heard by those around the individual. Though Imam


" Maraky al-Falah ٥٥.
? Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi, Ahmad in his Musnad, and Tabarani.
* Kitab al-Figh 'Ala Madhahib al-Arba'a, Abdur-Rahman al-Jaziri vol.١, ٧٤-٧٥.


٦٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION





Shafi'i disagrees with the ruling on the basis that it is not something that comes
out in the form of filth and is therefore not deemed as minor impurity in the case
of the funeral prayer and the recital prostrations. The Hanafi School held that the
funeral prayer does not consist of bowing or prostration which means audible
laughing in it, renders the prayer void though not the wudu. This is however,
contrary to a complete prayer that includes bowing and prostration(in which case
the wudu and prayer is void)." Note: smiling in prayer does not affect wudu or
prayer.
fle ye nae SL oi my

١٢/ If a man rubs a vagina with his erect penis without a screen(or cover)which
prevents the warmth of the body, ablution is void. The implication here is
rubbing, not penetration because if it is penetration then he will have to
undertake the major bath if the head of his penis disappears in the vagina. And
Allah knows best. Likewise, if a man with his erect penis touches another man's
penis without a covering or a woman with her genitalia touches another woman's
genitalia with sexual excitement and without a covering, ablution is void.' Note:
such acts are offensive and forbidden in the Islam, though the position of the
jurist is to provide a legal answer for a scenario should it ever occur.


٦ yop yas Vd
That Which Does Not Nullify Wudu
+t gl ats VeLtli te
There are ten things that do not nullify wudu;
Ale oe Jer deo a y٤h


١/ The appearance of blood that does not flow from its injury onto another part of
the skin does not break wudu.


ana A)Slay GH SAM GS SIS ٠٠ OM nb ope pt b yin
٢/ If a piece of flesh or scab is separated from the body without the flowing of
blood from its place, then it does not break wudu. The flesh or skin is pure and its
separation does not require purification provided there is no oozing of blood. An
example is a 'Madina blood vessel' that is termed 'rashta' in Persian. It is attributed
to the Madina of the Prophet because it was very common to them. A rashta is like
a polyp or a piece of flesh that hangs off the skin; it is also identified as a pimple


or blister upon the skin. If it is separated from the body without the flowing of
blood, then the ablution remains sound.


ly cr poEPeIAS





" Maraky al-Falah ٥٥.
* Maraky al-Falah ٥٦.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٣


٣/ If a worm exits a wound, or exits from the ear or nose, it does not break wudu
on the basis that it is not deemed filthy due to its very minimal dampness.
However, if it exits through the anus, ablution is nullified. Hence, it is deemed as
something that breaks ablution when it exits from the two passages, though this
excludes all other locations.
Pes

٤/ Touching one's penis, anus or a woman's genitalia, does not nullify wudu. This
was the Madhhab of some of the great Companions such as Umar, Ali, Ibn
Mas'ud, Ibn Abbas and Zaid ibn Thabit as well as some of the great Tabi'in such
as al-Hasan al-Basri, Sa'id and Thawr((God be pleased with them all)). The basis
for this view is the hadith that a man came to the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))and said, "O Messenger of Allah. What do you say about a man
who touches his genitals in prayer?" Thereupon the Prophet said to him, "Is it not
a body part from you."' And Imam Tirmidhi said about the above hadith that it is
the best hadith on the subject and the most sound. However, touching one's
genitals requires the washing of the hands as the Prophet said, "Whoever touches
his genitals is to observe wudu." Scholars said that the term wudu in this hadith
is meant in its linguistic sense, which is to wash the hands.


al yal aay
٥/ Touching a woman does not nullify wudu. A'ishah((Allah be pleased with her))reported[The Prophet would fondle(and kiss)some of his wives, and then would
pray without making wudul."


pi eV Ss
٦/ Vomiting less than a mouthful is not an annulling factor.
IS by parle is


٧/ Vomiting phlegm(saliva)does not nullify wudu even if it is more than a
mouthful because it has not mixed with any filth, and saliva is pure.


Stade Sy)Jarrl pili ples
٨/ To sway while sleeping where there is a possibility of falling does not break
wudu. Meaning, if one is sitting upright with the buttocks on the ground, then the
swaying does not affect the wudu because the buttocks are firmly placed on the
ground. The Companions of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would wait for the 'isha prayer until their heads drifted(sunk), then they prayed
and did not perform wudu).°


" At-Tirmidhi[Maraky al-Falah ٥٧].

* Musnad Ahmad ٤/٢٢, Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi | Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٧٨.
+ Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٧٨.

* AtTirmidhi and an-Nasai ١٦٥.

* Abu Dawud ٢٠٠


٦٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Leto paUlall fo date Lil Jog Mlares Sy Kare er yi


٩/ Sleeping in a firm manner is not an annulling factor, even if one is leaning on a
support, where he will fall over if it is removed; and this is the soundest view in
the school of Abu Hanifa with respect to this ruling and the ruling in point eight.
The description of this posture is to sleep seated upright while the buttocks are
firmly positioned on the ground.


Bll ily LI age fe tale LST, gly frase gis


١٠/ Sleeping in prayer(does not break ablution)even if one sleeps during bowing and
prostration provided the person maintains his posture according to the sunna.
However, if one's posture is no longer according to the sunna, such as one's arm
collapsing upon the rib area and ground, the wudu is invalid. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[Ablution is not compulsory on one who
sleeps sitting or standing or prostrating until he falls on his side]." Therefore, if
one falls on his side, relaxation of his joints has occurred thus rendering the wudu
void. The same rule applies outside of prayer; that is, wudu remains sound if one
falls asleep in these postures.'


SLY Coy bed fuai


That Which Obligates The Major Bath(Ghusl)tlatl dae yo tely Jail ٢ pay
The major bath is compulsory if one of the following occurs:
CU ae et bythe de oe adil IS]atl pale S! dll cy >


١- The discharge of sperm to the surface of the body obligates the major bath
provided it separates from its location due to sexual arousal, not sexual
intercourse. This can occur due to a sexual dream or fantasizing, and applies to
both male and female. If however, one is struck in the back and consequently
discharges sperm, he is not required to perform the major bath because it was not
due to sexual arousal. According to Shafi'i, the emergence of seminal fluid, in
whatever way this occurs, leads to the obligation of bathing due to the saying of
the Prophet(Water is from water]; that is, bathing is due to the discharge of
semen.' The Hanafi proof is that purification is invoked by sexual impurity{janaba| and sexual impurity is the ejaculation of semen through sexual desire.
The hadith mentioned by the Prophet that "Water is from water," is interpreted to
mean ejaculation by way of sexual desire.


" At-Tirmidhi and al-Bayhaqi.
* Maraky al-Falah ٥٨.
* Al-Hidaya ٢١.


ea en BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٥


Maraky al-Falah states. the Hanafi school maintains that it is conditional for sexual
desire to be present when the seminal fluid separates from its location, though it is
not conditional that the sexual desire persist until the fluid exits the body,
contrary to Abu Yusuf(who maintained it is conditional for the desire to be present when
the seminal fluid exits the body). Therefore, according to Abu Hanifa anc
Muhammad, this means that if one holds or squeezes his penis until the a
desire subsides and fades away, and then some time after this — seminal fluid
comes out, then one is required to undertake the major bath, though Abu Yusuf
says that he is not required to do so; and the legal ruling[fatwa]is in accordance
with Abu Yusuf's view.!


Equally, if one has a bath after which the rest of the seminal fluid exits before one
has urinated, slept or walked many steps, then one is required to perform the
major bath again according to Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, contrary to ne
Yusuf(zwho maintains that it must exit the body with sexual desire present at such time). If
however, the seminal fluid exits after urinating and after one's penis comes ٩ bak
or after sleeping or walking many steps, then the bath is not required again, an
issue they agreed upon."

el ee tel dpe phe cy oi eee Sly
٢- If the head of the penis disappears in one of the passages of a living oe
being(vagina or anus); the major bath becomes compulsory on both persons. Ant
the size of the head is from the section that was removed in circumcision(i.e. it is
the head of a living man's penis). The Prophet((God bless him and give =
peace))said[When the private parts[of the male and female]cohabit with eac
other and the penis disappears in the vagina, bathing becomes obligatory(for
both the male and female)].* The Prophet also said[When the private parts mee
and the penis disappears, bathing becomes obligatory irrespective of discharge].


dace glee eb y Hes
٣- The discharge of sperm due to intercourse with a dead person or animal


obligates the major bath. Note: if no sperm is discharged, one is not required to
observe the major bath because the desire was one sided.


esl fs! ae ٠٥٣ Ke d lle gl tu Gd eb ٢٩٧٩٩
٤ - If a person after waking up finds the presence of thin liquid(and yea
remember a dream); the major bath is obligatory provided his penis was not erec


before sleeping. If, on the other hand, the penis was erect prior to sleeping, it is in
all likelihood madhi, and madhi does not require the major bath.


" Maraky al-Falah ٥٩-٦٠. ek

* Maraky al-Falah ٥٩-٦٠ | Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٩٧ - Third Edition, Dar al-Kutub al"Ilmiyya.

*Tbn Majah ٦١١.

' Al-Ikhtiyar ٢٠ / Al-Bayhagqi in Sunan al-Kubra ١/١٤١. ٢٣s,

, . i cur, they rarely do and it is
Note: although such unlawful and offensive acts may never occur, they y

the duty of a jurist to provide a solution.


٦٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Leb)Sur cp Bll]day Lee a flog


٥- If a person finds the presence of wetness after regaining consciousness or after
recovering from intoxication and believes it to be sperm, then he is required to
undertake the major bath.


ules ٤>u٩


٦-٧- When a female's menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding ends, it is
compulsory for her to perform the major bath.


ee SpE fb gS! sLeViclam ٥S,


And even if the aforementioned things(such as menses or seminal discharge)occurs prior to becoming a Muslim, one must still perform the major bath after
embracing Islam and this is the correct view. The reason being is that the trait of
major impurity[janaba]remains even after becoming Muslim, and it is not
possible to meet the conditions of prayer or the funeral prayer, the prostration of
recitation or the touching of Quran unless the major bath is performed. Hence, it
is obligatory to perform it given that one is Muslim and required to be pure when
he wants to pray or perform other acts of worship that require purity, as Allah
mentioned in the verse of wudu. If however, one becomes Muslim, though was
not in a state of major impurity when he was an unbeliever, then the major bath is
recommended upon becoming Muslim."


GUS oN as ٦ piss
It is a communal obligation[fard kifaya]to bath a deceased Muslim. If however no
one performs this task, then the sin falls upon the entire community.
That Which Does Not Obligate The Major Bath
Lge pecs Volt a ne
There are ten things a person is not required to perform the major bath from:
$٢٣٣ Ste


١- Madhi(non-sperm male discharge also known as Cowper"s fluid - which is the
name of the gland from which the fluid originates; and known in general terms as
pre-cum). It is a white, thin, sticky fluid that is released from a man's penis when
he is aroused. The fluid is released long before man reaches an orgasm. Such
arousal is due to passionate or romantic play or kissing. Moreover, the fluid that
exits from a female due to amorous play is termed kadhi.'


" Maraky al-Falah ٦١ / Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim al-Silkini ١٠٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ٦٠, ft-٤.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٧


٢- Wadi(non-sperm male discharge)is describes as a white cloudy fluid that is
thick and warm and has no smell. It is released generally after urinating and
occasionally before.


JL pAl,


٣- The major bath is not compulsory, if one has a sexual dream but finds no
wetness upon awaking. And the females are like the males due to the words of the
Prophet who was asked: "Does a woman need to perform ghusl if she dreams?"
There upon the Prophet said "Yes, if she dreams and sees the fluid."!


Cw Glade ٠٣.٤٥٥ nF op OV ٥s
٤- Giving birth without visible blood does not obligate the major bath, since it is
not regarded as post natal bleeding[nifas]. Abu Hanifa maintained that as a


precaution she should perform ghusl on the basis that giving birth cannot be free
from a small amount of noticeable blood.


BAW! > p> ٥ pe SL % Se OL)٥- If a man inserts his penis in a woman's vagina, but there is a cloth(or clothes)that prevent the feeling of sexual pleasure, the major bath is not compulsory. It is
however, recommended to undertake the major bath as a precautionary measure


a> y


٦- Administrating medicine in the anus(such as a suppository)does not require
the bath.


cahedlaol jopey enol UeaLy


٧- Inserting a finger or something like it into the vagina or anus does not require
the major bath, and this is the opted view on the matter given the deficiency of
sexual desire.


Spl ne op dey sling eby,y


٨ / ٩- Having sexual intercourse with an animal or a deceased women without
discharging semen, does not obligate the major bath.


Jp ne PH LEIKI FA Kabel,


١٠- If a male penetrates a virgin, though he does not break her hymen and does
not discharge semen, the major bath is not compulsory. Note: we said earlier that
if the head of the penis penetrates a woman, that it obligates the major bath, but
in this case, the fact that her virginity remained intact confirms that the
circumcisable parts did not meet in a manner that would require the major bath
and that her hymen prevented the meeting of the private parts.'





" Bukhari ٢٨٢.
٢ Maraky al-Falah ٦٢.


٦٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION





Saat atl oly J
That Which Is Compulsory To Wash
et pte dol Lt i ٢ te
It is compulsory to wash eleven things during the major bath;


Bye Oddly EV y pill Jae


Washing the mouth, nostrils and the entire body once, is obligatory in the major
bath because Allah said in the Quran[If you are in a state of ceremonial impurity,
bath your whole body]." This is a clear command requiring the washing of the
entire body which includes the nose and mouth, though not the inner part of the
eyes. Imam Shafi'i on the other hand disagreed with respect to the mouth and
nostrils in the major bath saying that these are its sunan due to the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[Ten things are part of
fitra, and he mentioned from among them the gargling and the rinsing of the
nostrils].' Additionally, the reason the gargling and rinsing the nostrils are not
obligatory in wudu, but are in the major bath is because in the verse concerning
wudu, we are ordered to wash the face which excludes the nostrils and mouth.


a J re Y ads eles
It is obligatory to wash the inner area of the foreskin(that is usually removed


when circumcised)provided it can be opened or unwrapped without difficulty. If
there is difficulty, the requirement is lifted.


pre pF ny ٨ oy
To wash the inner part of the navel is obligatory. Likewise, to wash an opening(such as a hole or slot)in the body that has not sealed is obligatory. One should be
gentle and not exert hardship upon himself.


Lalas fo ٣ at op pyinall Jota


It is obligatory for a man to undo his braids and wash the inside. And he is to do
this every time he undertakes a major bath. And even if the water reaches the root
of his hair while it is tied, it is not valid; he must undo his braids and allow water
to reach the roots. This is because a man does not receive a dispensation based on
beautification, although the woman does.'


J geod Soll os pe Oa AN at yey yiaall Y


a

" Al-Maida ٦.

٢

; Recorded by all the sound compilations except Bukhari.[Al-Hidayah ١٩}.
Maraky al-Falah ٦٣.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٩


However, a female is not required to open her braids — provided the water
reaches the roots as is agreed upon, due to the hadith[Umm Salama who asked
the Prophet, "Apostle of Allah, ١ am a woman who keeps her hair closely plated.
Should I undo it when I wash after sexual relations?" He replied, "It is enough for
you to throw three handfuls over it, then pour water all over your body and you
will be purified."" One of the reasons for this as experts have explained is due to
hardship in undoing and redoing the hair that consumes a very long time.


CHEN ally bly SL yy Gas


It is obligatory to wash the skin underneath the beard, moustache, eyebrows, as
well as the immediate inner part of the outer lips of the vagina, not the internal
area.


Sant spe Ole
The Sunan Of The Major Bath
Let oe St SLY ope
Twelve things are sunna in the major bath and they are;
Q)ly SL ela!


It is sunna to start by uttering, "In the name of God, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate[tasmiyya]," and to make one's intention. Note: just as a person is
rewarded for having an intention in wudu, the same applies to bathing. With
respect to the fasmiyya, the Prophet said, "Every important matter that is not
commenced with the name of God, is devoid of divine blessing,"? and the asmiyya
should coincide with the intention, so that the éasmiyya is on the tongue and the
intention is in the heart.


cna HM SI cpl pr(Ce Ob R))y


One is to commence the actions with the washing of the hands to the wrists.
Therefore, the tasmiyya and intention are to be observed with the washing of the
wrists. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported that((If the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))performed the major bath from janaba, he began
with washing his hands)).*


asl ab GIS Jibs jéy


It is sunna to wash away any impurity if it is isolated on the body. The sunna is to
wash it off before it dries so that one feels content that it has been removed.


" Abu Dawud ٢٥١.
? Ibn Majah ١٨٩٤.
٣ Muslim ٣١٦.


٧٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ap Sent s
To wash the sexual organs is sunna even if there is no noticeable impurity; this is
so that one feels content that water has reached the section of the body that
connects with the private part when one is standing and disconnects when one is
seated.


AAD pees fentll Che Tal ٤٥ yd ٥ Le go ٠


It is sunna to perform ablution, such as the ablution one makes for prayer,
washing the parts of ablution three times including the wiping of the head. Ibn
Abbas((Allah be pleased with him))reported on the authority of Maimuna, his
mothers sister, that she said[I placed water near the Messenger of Allah so that
he could take a bath from sexual intercourse, in which he washed his hands twice
or three times and then put his hand in the basin and poured water over his
private parts and washed them with his left hand. He then struck his hand against
the earth and rubbed it and then performed wudu upon which he washed his
whole body after which he moved aside from that place and washed his feet]."


Wd eat Je J de OW Ole I Le op oS),


One is to delay the washing of his feet if he is bathing in a place where the water
gathers and rises, for this is what the Prophet did((God bless him and grant him
peace)).

inal)JaSI ٨٤ ١٨٠ y Sa gh Le gh og Hal call ٨ punt gly UU ada gle cLall arty ٥
After this, it is sunna to pour water on the entire body three times, or one may
submerge himself in running water or anything else of similar legal status such as


a large quantity of water. If one remains in such water for a short duration, then
he has fulfilled the sunna.


pals pa eSu ade faery eed y ell ne destiny


One is to begin the process of washing by pouring water over the head, followed
by the right shoulder, then the left shoulder.


abe MN yey etn Wivs


It is sunna to rub the body with the water[da/k]and to wash successively without
pausing between the actions.


" Maraky al-Falah ٦٥.
? Muslim ٣١٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION
slay Soy JLEY lal
The Etiquettes And Disliked Actions Of Ghusl
yl AtS eo NE OK OV dal Je V sl Y]o pS OT JLEYI ist,


The etiquettes of the major bath are the same as that of wudu. The exception ;
that in the major bath, one is not to face the qibla because one is nak mi ft is
always. It is recommended that a person undertake the major bath ost
where no one can see him. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him pe

said[God is Ever Living and Ever Concealed from the eyes of the people Lari
likes those who acquire the qualities of modesty and concealment: = wh e
anyone of you wants to bath, let him observe secrecy]." Maraky al-Falah expl —
that when a man is bathing alongside other men and does not find the ace ains
observe secrecy, then he is to choose a place that is the least exposed ete to
applies to a woman who bathes alongside other women. The sin is ae :
onlooker if another person has uncovered his private part to bath. :


in a place


spo ae Stabe ss


And that which is disliked in ablution is disliked in the major bath with th
exception that it is disliked to speak, even if it is supplication, because the : e
parts are exposed. Private


dy gell"y ٦٤٥ god SLE ٥ fuai
When Ghusl Is Sunna And Recommended
& yb JLEY!
Occasions When Ghusl Is Sunna
eLtl da ULE Y oe





It is sunna to perform the major bath for four occasions,
dant BL
١- Friday prayer because it is the greatest of days. The Prophet((God b
and grant him peace))said[The greatest of days is Friday].? Por eats
crtsll ie y


٢- The Eid prayers. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
perform the major bath on the day of Fitr, Adha and Arafah.' ee would


" Abu Dawud.
٢ Ahmad ٣٣/٤٣٠.
* Tbn Majah ١٣١٦.


٧٢ BOOK |: PURIFICATION


Laws
٣- It is sunna for the ihram, which is the state of sanctification that one enters for
hajj and umrah as the Prophet performed((God bless him and give him peace))."
ly Nan de ٣ cE,


٤- It is sunna for the one performing hajj to bath af Arafah after the sun passes the
meridian(i.e. when the dhuhr time enters). This is specific for the one performing
hajj, not others.


yall SLZY!
The Occasions When It Is Recommended
bb tote GUL Oey
It is recommended to perform the major bath on sixteen occasions;
Lalb Lolo
١- The major bath is recommended for a person accepting Islam while free from
major ritual impurity[janaba], such as menstrual periods and postnatal bleeding.


The reason the major bath is recommended in this case is to ensure they are free
of any traces of that which may have been previously."


othabels


٢- It is recommended for one who matures by age; and according to the adopted
view in the Hanafi Madhhab, the maximum age is fifteen years for both sexes.
Therefore, one who has not yet experienced a nocturnal dream or a girl who has
not yet received a menstrual period is regarded mature at the age of fifteen. See
the previous chapter: Conditions That Obligate Wudu.


Ogee Bul oly
٣- It is recommended for a person who recovers from insanity and fainting.


٤- It is recommended after hijamah, commonly termed cupping. The basis is the
Prophets hadith on the matter((God bless him and give him peace)). Note:
hijamah is when tiny cuts are made to the skin after which blood flows.


oe es


" AcTirmidhi, the Book of Hajj ٨٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٦٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٣


٥- After washing a dead body. Note: The scholars disagreed on this point and
point four, but in order to remove oneself from the differences of the scholars, one
is recommended to perform ghusl in these circumstances. The Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))would perform the major bath from four things: janaba(sexual impurity), the Friday prayer, Aijamah(cupping)and from washing a
deceased. "


iol» AL ٥


٦- On the night of Bara-ah(Immunity). This night occurs in the middle of the
month of Sha'ban.


Lal ١٥]jaa als,


٧- It is recommended on the night of Qadr(Power)if one witnesses it or realises it
through the knowledge transmitted. From its signs are that it is bright, neither hot
or cold and at the break of dawn, the sun rises without rays. It occurs on an odd
day in the last ten days of Ramadan from the ٢١* to the ٢٩". This being the case,
it is desirable to spend the last ten nights of Ramadan in worship as the Prophet
did until he passed((God bless him and grant him peace)).


peg ae ail oo pil Ue tte J ely


٨- Upon entering the Madina of the Holy Prophet, it is recommended to bath due
to the high status it has been given, and due to arriving in the Prophet"s presence((God bless him and grant him peace)).


posle pls dds p٣٨ ys


٩- It is recommended for the standing in Muzdalifah at dawn time on the day of
Sacrifice(which is the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah)١٠- When entering Makkah for Tawaf azZtyarah(a pillar of hajj), it is
recommended to perform the major bath. This also applies for tawaf in general,
for the reason that a person should perform the tawaf with complete purity.'(lege ee dae la atl Gb pect y pretI)Ab ped Sua y


١١/١٢- For the prayer of a solar and lunar eclipse, it is a desirable and
recommended practice.


olanaul y


١٣- When seeking rain. This is essentially seeking forgiveness from Allah, and the
prayer or request is to be performed in utmost purity.


" Abu Dawud ٣٤٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٦٩.


١٤ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION





Beh py ٩ Lal y ٦٥٣(ye eal)١٤/١٥/١٦- It is recommended for the prayer arising from fear, overwhelming
darkness in the day or due to the presence of strong wind, whether it occurs at
night or in the day because Allah has ruined nations such as the nation of Ad with
destructive wind. It is also recommended when one has repented from his sins
and when returning from travel. It is also recommended to perform the major
bath when one has been struck with filth[najasa]and its location or spot is hidden,
in which case one it is recommended to wash his entire body and clothes as a
precaution. !


٢,
Oo Me ©,


posit
Tayammum


Lexically, tayammum means "purpose and intention." According to the scholars of
jurisprudence, tayammum is the wiping of the face and hands on soil which is pure.
Tayammum is something specifically for Islam that was not introduced in any
Previous laws before it. The proof for its legality is Allah's saying[And if you find
no water, then take for yourselves clean sand or earth and rub therewith your faces and hands.
Allah does not wish to place you in difficulty? This proof indicates the ease of the
religion; for previous to this in the earlier religions prior to Islam, one's
responsibility entailed many instances of hardship that could not be tolerated
except one whose intent was resolved in achieving its target. However, with the
advent of Islam came teachings that would not disconnect the servant from his
and leave in him disconnected from the Lord of mankind. Allah says[On no soul
does God place a burden greater than it can bear].° Elsewhere, He says[Our Lord!
Lay not on us a burden greater than we have the strength to bear].*


Indeed, the act of prayer, touching the Quran, tawaf and similar examples are
acts of worship that cannot be valid without wudu. However, the Sacred Law
allowed tayammum as a substitute for water during its absence or when one is
unable to use the water. This was done so that the servant would not be barred
from undertaking in the acts of worship or receiving its benefit and reward.'





Maraky al-Falah ٦٩.
Al-Maida ٧.
: Quran ٢:٢٨٦.
Quran ٢:٢٨٦. |Nur al-Idah ٤٤.
Al-Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٤.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٧٥


anv b ٣ rf
Conditions That Validate Tayammum


ES by ha pacll aay
There are eight conditions that one must fulfil;
ay pence Le fe ok pb Ae Ugh yy frill fo dill aie dtm y QIN: Uy

١- The first condition that validates tayammum is the intention; and its reality is
to have a firm resolve in the heart upon the action. The time for the intention is
when one places his hands upon the substance he intends to make tayammum
with. Note: the reason the intention is conditional in tayammum as opposed to
wudu is because the essence of the soil is physically unclean and is not deemed a
purifier for other things except it times of necessity. Therefore, if one wipes his
face with sand for example, he will not distinguish whether it is unclean or
purifying except by his intention. In other words, the soil does not act as a purifier
except with an intention. It is therefore conditional for the performance of
tayammum. In relation to wudu, it is valid without an intention because the
essence of the water is pure; and is purifying for other things. It was created as a
purifier, though this is not the case with soil." Note: the stipulation of an intention
is agreed upon according to all four jurists except Zufar the student of Abu
Hanifa. Zufar held that it is not obligatory because it is a substitute for wudu and
should not contradict its attributes.


Ar le balls jerodlls pA YI: BW aI de by ٥
- There are three conditions that validate the intention:
a)that one be Muslim. Tayammum is not applicable to non-believers.


b)that one possess the ability to differentiate and discriminate so that he
comprehends what he says. This condition entails one's sanity.


c)that one have knowledge of what he intends.
elo sole Da Sd bits


To validate one's intention of tayammum for ritual prayer, it is
conditional to satisfy one of three things,


٥ tga ٤٥ |


I)that one intends purification from his unclean state. This means that to intend
purification alone suffices for prayer, since purity is legally the key to prayer and
it is a condition that validates prayer. And even if one is in a state of janaba(major ritual impurity), intending purification alone suffices.


" Maraky al-Falah ٧١ | Nur al-Idah ٤٤.


١٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Ball Low! I


II)that one intend(the tayammum)to make prayer permissible for himself.
Meaning, if a person intends tayammum to make prayer lawful, it is a valid
intention for prayer because its permissibility lifts the status of impurity.


٨ sleb Os ena Vio pads dole i Jl


III)that one intend(the tayammum to perform)a specific act of worship, an act
which requires purity. For example, the recital prostration requires one to be in a
state of purity in order to perform it; this means that if a person intends
tayammum so he can carry out the prostration of recital, then this is a valid intent
for prayer because purity is achieved by intending that act. Another example is
that of a person who says, "/ intend tayammum for the prayer of janaza" and it is
known that the prayer of janaza is an act that one must be pure for. Therefore, by
intending the prayer of janaza in one's tayammum, one may also offer prayer with
this intent. Thus, if a person intends in their tayammum a specific act which
requires purity, then one is also permitted to pray with that intention.


Lee So dy OM ool wally ٣]ad els ٩٥١]٤ ea


A person cannot pray if he only intends tayammum. Purity must be factored in the
intention in some form, as shown in the above valid intentions for prayer. And
neither can a person pray if he intends the recitation of Quran, yet he is not in a
state of major impurity(janaba). Meaning, this person is in a state of minor
impurity and intends tayammum for the recitation of Quran, not to touch it. In
his case he is already permitted to recite the Quran. Another reason is that mere
recitation of Quran in his case does not place one in legal purity.


Note: if one is in a state of sexual impurity[janaba]and intends tayammum for the
recitation of Quran, then it is a valid intention since recitation is part of prayer(and one of its pillars). Though if one intends tayammum to touch the Quran, or
enter a mosque, then he cannot offer prayer with either of these intentions
because they are not from the pillars of prayer. Likewise, intending tayammum to
visit a cemetery or to offer the adhan and iqama are not valid according to the
majority of Hanafi scholars. Moreover, Abu Yusuf held that if one intends
tayammum for the purpose of entering Islam, it serves as a valid intent for prayer
given that it is the peak of attaining nearness to God. However, Abu Hanifa and
Muhammad maintain that it is not valid and this is the soundest view. Also, if one
intends tayammum for the prostration of gratitude[sajda ash-Shukr|, there are
varying views on the issue.


" Maraky al-Falah ٧٢.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٧


For the purpose of clarity, the Hanafis stipulate three conditions in order for the

intention of tayammum for prayer to be valid. One must intend one of three

things: the first is to intend purification from one's impure state. In this

stipulation, one does not have to specify his condition, whether it be major or

minor impurity, for intending purification alone is sufficient. The second is to

intend prayer to be lawful for oneself or to lift one's impurity. The third is to
intend a specific act of worship that requires purification(an act that cannot be
valid unless one is pure)such as prayer, the prostration of recitation or the funeral
prayer. If one merely intends tayammum without consideration of one of the
above, then prayer is not valid with such an intention. Furthermore, Imam Shafi'i
held that one is required to intend tayammum to perform the obligation and that
without an intention offering the obligation, it is not valid. According to this view,
if one intends in his tayammum, a non-obligatory prayer or an optional prayer, it
does not validate the obligatory one. If one intends the obligatory prayer, then it
serves as a valid intention for the optional one. However, in performing
tayammum for an obligatory prayer, one must intend its being obligatory; though
not necd specify whether, for example, it is the noon prayer of the mid-afternoon
prayer.


Summary Diagram


Intention is conditional
for tayammum and _ is
required at the time one
strikes the earth.


However, in order for this intent
to be valid, one must be Muslim,
sane and have knowledge about
what he intends.


With respect to the intention for
ritual prayer, one must intend
one of three things in order for
his tayammum to be correct for
prayer and they are: a)the
intention of purification, b)the
intent to make prayer permissible
for oneself and c)to intend an act
of worship that originally requires
purity, in which case - this will be
sufficient for prayer.





: AlFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٦ | Reliance of the Traveller ٩٠.


٧٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


PANNE gly cle ٣٦ Hye das pec ceed pial: GU


٢- The second condition that permits tayammum is: one must have a valid reason
such as being separated from water the distance of a mile,' even though one is in
the city. If one is at a distance that is less than a mile, he must go for water. This
stipulation holds that there be a valid reason such as the absence of water.
However, this absence is split into two types; the first is the real absence and the
second type is the legal absence. The real absence is defined as the actual water not
being available or found by the impure person, due to being separated from it the
distance of a mile. According to the Hanafis, one is to seek water if it is near-by or
there are people present who may be asked or one has a predominant view it is
present in a locality based on evidence such as birds or a fruit tree. If this is not
the case, one is not required to seek it. What is considered in this case is one's
predominant belief. The legal absence is defined as follows; the water is available,
though one has no ability to use it because he may contract an illness by using the
water or that one's illness will become aggravated or delayed. Another reason is
fear from a predator or another human or fear for one's possessions or trusts. In
addition is the absence of an instrument by which to extract water from a well or
another source; or fear of thirst or death upon oneself, companions or beast and
so forth.'


Bt GY cre cll y tae y ye Gy ٢ Al sf i ce GE oy op Spars
ely Jy te glajke Meo Gyorgy Saad,


Other reasons include; contracting an illness fearing that it will aggravate one's
condition or delay the recovery time, or cause fever and diarrhea; or it is so cold
that one fears harm to life or limb or that he will become seriously ill from the use
of the water, or one fears an enemy which he may encounter in the search of
water. A person may fear for himself, goods, or trusts that he has in his
possession.


Likewise, the fear of thirst or needing the water to make dough, for baking bread
is a valid reason. This may be due to a necessity of not having food, in which case
one may use the water for the dough and perform tayammum, though one cannot
use this water for soup because there is no necessity for it. And the absence of an





" Being separated from water means to be separated from a quantity of water that is sufficient
for wudu; and in relation to the distance of a mile, Maraky al-Falah ٧٢ states that one mile
equates to ٤٠٠٠ arm lengths[dhira], which is equivalent to ١٨٦٦ metres. Other Hanafi sources
maintain that it is equivalent to the distance of ١٨٤٨ metres[Al Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-
Salkini ١١٧], while the international established measure nowadays is ١٨٥٢ metres. However, it
is in all likelihood that this mile is in reference to a nautical mile which is a unit of length,
because the normal(statute)mile equates to ١٦٠٩ metres and the Hanafi sources have not
mentioned this figure. A nautical mile was developed from the geographical mile. It
corresponds approximately to one minute of latitude along any meridian. It is a non-SI unit
especially used by navigators in the shipping and aviation sector.

* Al-Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٧-١١٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٩


instrument to extract water such as a rope or bucket is deemed a valid reason for
making tayammum. Additionally, if one fears he will miss the Funeral or Eid
prayer, then he is to make tayammum. And even if one begins the(Funeral or Eid
prayer)with the imam and then inadvertently breaks wudu, he is permitted to
renew tayammum and complete the same prayer. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased
with him))reported[If the funeral prayer came suddenly and you feared you
would miss it, pray it with tayammum].' The reason tayammum is permitted for
these prayers based on the fear of missing them is because if they are missed, they
cannot be made up later.


C٥ gly Seadlicryd aye plas ols
It is not a valid reason if one fears he will miss the Friday prayer or the time of an


obligatory prayer because the Friday prayer has a substitute, namely the dhuAr
prayer and the obligatory prayer can be made up as gada.

ay aay GLY fe Sy pdt LAS ٢ NI ae ope pals eect OS OF: QIU
٣- The third condition requires that it be from a pure earth substance, such as
soil, stone and sand as well as gypsum, limestone, kohl, clay and arsenic
according to the Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, while Abu Yusuf maintained that
it is not permitted except with earth and sand. A person cannot perform
tayammum with wood, silver or gold as well as metal. Vital note: everything that
turns to ashes upon burning and everything that is made in fire cannot be used
for tayammum and anything else is permitted." Al-Shafi'i held that it is only
permissible with earth in which things can grow, and this has also been narrated
from Abu Yusuf due to the words of the exalted[Then take for yourselves clean


earth and perform tayammum with itl,' that is, soil used for sowing which is the
view held by Ibn Abbas.


ceth rll ole: wl

٤- The fourth stipulation is to completely wipe the parts required, which is the
face and the hands up to the elbows. One must therefore remove his ring,
interlace or rub between his fingers and wipe the entire skin of his face including
the hair according to the correct view. Another view holds that the majority of the
face is sufficient as well as the hands.' The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Tayammum is two strikes, a strike for the face and a strike for the
arms to his elbows].° This is also what the Prophet observed, because he was
asked about the method of wiping;[So he struck the ground with his palms, then
raised them to his face, after which he struck the ground again and then wiped his
arms, the inner part and outer part until he touched his elbows with his hands].°


" Tbn Ady Al-Kamil ٧/١٨٢.

? Maraky al-Falah ٧٥.

* Quran ٤:٤٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٧٥.

° Hakim Al-Mustadrak ١/٢٨٧.

® Ad-Darqutani in his Sunan vol.١, ١٧٩.


٨٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ae ged > IS hy ٥٩ Ves ee gl cm La sk sft ere nes OF:
٥- The fifth condition requires one to wipe with the entire hand or the majority of
it. It is not valid if a person wipes with only two fingers even if he does so


repeatedly until the required area is covered. However, in wudu a person may
wipe his head with two fingers until he covers the required area, and this suffices.


١ label Cus pall plas ¢ ging daly Ke dy CuSI ple cary pd ٠٩S, aT s aL
pac ٤٢> Aunt lo}ody


٦- The sixth condition is that it must be with two strikes with the inside of the
palms over the soil, even if the two strikes are from the same place. An alternative
solution to the two strikes is the wiping of the soil(or earth)already present on
one's body, provided one intends tayammum when doing this. This situation
could arise by means of a dust storm where one is covered in sand. If this
occurred and one wiped the sand on his face and arms with the intention of
tayammun,, it is valid.


٧- The seventh condition stipulates that the things that are incompatible with


tayammum must discontinue before proceeding such as menstrual periods,
postnatal bleeding or minor impurity.


rd CAS cell eres bly ٥: op


٨ The eighth condition that validates tayammum is to remove obstacles that
prevent the wiping of the skin, such as wax or fatty grease, because if one wipes
with these things present on the body, then he will in actual fact be wiping the
wax or fat and not the skin.


arabs ٩ pelo
The Reason For Tayammum And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
© gain gil g٨ S٩٠ LS ٤٣ ga y to)gal y Arseny
The reason for tayammum and the conditions that make it obligatory are the
same as wudu; namely, one cannot be legal for acts of worship unless he is pure.


Its conditions are sanity, maturity, Islam, being in a state of minor impurity, and
so forth.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨١


pag als sl


Its Pillars
ae gly cpAcll eames oS yy


There are two pillars of tayammum; they are to wipe the arms(with the elbows)and the wiping of the face. If a person neglects one of these, then his tayammum
is invalid.
Sunan Of Tayammum
dame mall cows
The sunan of tayammum are seven;


a plly ll GI


To say, "In the name of God, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate" at the start, and to
perform the actions in chronological order; namely, to wipe the face before the
hands(to the elbows).


oY sl,


To perform the actions of tayammum successively without pausing between them.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked about the process of
wiping, and it is reported that[He struck the ground with his palms, then raised
them to his face, after which he struck the ground again and then wiped his arms,
the inner part and outer part until he touched his elbows with his hands]."


CC sglecdt ٣ SiS ss pall DD)Leo cer ily lqeaidy LA shal y ANS lets tes etl JLily


When a person places his hands upon the earth, it is sunna to rub them forward
and backward in the soil, after which he is to shake off his hands. In addition to
this, the fingers are to be open and spread from one another, not clenched when
striking the ground. The reason is to allow the earth to get in between the fingers
to ensure optimum cleaning. Note: the procedure of shaking the hands is by


hitting them together, and this is done by keeping the hands horizontal bumping
only the index fingers.


Abu Yusuf asked Abu Hanifa about how to perform tayammum and Abu Hanifa
clarified this by leaning over to clean earth and rubbing his hands in it forward
and backward, after which he raised his hands and shook them and wiped his
face. He then he repeated what he did with his hands by striking the ground a
second time and rubbing them forward and backward. Then he raised them,
shook them off and wiped each arm with the opposite hand including the inner
area of the arm up to the elbows.' The procedure of tayammum regarding the
arms is as follows: after one has struck the ground with his hands a second time,


" Darqutani in his Sunan ١/١٧٩.
? Maraky al-Falah ٧٧.


٨٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


he is to wipe the outward part of his right arm with the inside of his four fingers of
his left hand(ie. deft hand for right arm)from the tips of his fingers up to the elbow.
He is then to use his left palm without the fingers and wipe the inner part of his
right arm(from the elbow)up to the wrists. He is then to pass the inner part of his
left thumb over the outward part of his right thumb. He is then to repeat this


action for his left arm."
pol ob


When To Delay Tayammum
SM oF foe en ob peal eb Ow,
It is recommended to delay tayammum when one expects(according to his


predominant view that)he will attain water before the end of the prayer time.
There is narration from Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf that in this situation, one is


required to delay tayammum.
eLadlk Jy cbse JL obs,


If one has been promised water, it wajib to delay tayammum, even if one fears
that he will miss the prayer from its time. This is agreed upon in the Madhhab,
provided the water is available and close by. If however, the water is not present
with the person who promised it, or it is one mile away or more, then delaying
tayammum is not required.


Lad Gt dled hol te Sh big,


Provided there is no fear of missing the prayer from its time, it is necessary to
delay the prayer when a person has been promised clothes to cover his nakedness
or a water skin or rope to withdraw water. Though if one fears he will miss the
prayer, then he is to perform tayammum and pray, whereas the two companions
said even if he fears he will miss the prayer, he must still wait, just like the one
who has been promised water is to delay.'

UI Lb


Requesting Water
WEYL pe ae ٥ gb of ٨ phe Slay | jade Sl Ul bos,


It is wajib to seek water the distance of ٤٠٠ steps if one believes it is near-by,
provided it is safe to do so. If not, then he need not search. Note: if one believes
water is close by based on evidence such as the presence of a bird, fruit or
information received, then he is required to seek water the distance of ٣٠٠-٤٠٠
steps in the direction he believes the water to be; and it is not permitted for him to
perform tayammum unless he has searched for water. If on the other hand he
does not believe water is near-by, then he is under no obligation.'


" ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٢ | Al-Badai" vol.١, ٤٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٧٧.
* Al-Hidaya ٥٠


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨٣


Of ٤p ٠٩l po ae ٥)alee spat VY dla daly cp gelling ces Y Je SOUS Of ane yr of ab ky
anh ye Wald ane lS


One is required to request water from an accompanying person(or one of his
companions if they have it), provided that one is in a place where people are not
stingy or miserly with the water." And if one is not given water unless it is paid for
at the average price, then one must pay if he has extra money left-over from what
is needed for his basic requirements. If however the water is being sold at an
unreasonable price, then it is not compulsory to purchase the water. Hence, these
are the three conditions that require the purchase of the water; i.e. that one is in a
place where people are not stingy with water(this is to indicate that the water will
generally be given in such a place), the price is standard, and one has the means
to purchase it apart from what he needs for his basic requirements. A person is
not required to purchase the water if it is selling at a high price or at the average
price, though one does not have the means to purchase it, or one needs the funds
for his basic requirements."


eal all
Prayer With Tayammum
One may offer as many obligatory and voluntary prayers he desires with only one
tayammum, though it is superior to repeat tayammum in order to remove oneself
from the view of the Shafi'i Madhhab. Imam Shafi'i held that he is to perform
tayammum(afresh)for every obligatory prayer. The Hanafi view is that he is in a
state of purification as long as water is unavailable, which means he can perform


his obligation as long as its condition is valid. Therefore, tayammum acts like
wudu in that one is deemed pure until it is broken.


cS Il Le nd roy


It is valid to perform tayammum before the entry of the prayer time, just like it is
valid to offer as many obligatory and optional prayers one likes, because
tayammum is purification that is legally acknowledged provided the water is
unavailable. Therefore, tayammum acts in its place as long as this condition is
present.'


If one is in to a place where people are miserly with the water or they will not give water under
any circumstances, then one is to make tayammum and pray. What is meant here is that one is
convinced he will be refused or denied, in which case one is to perform tayammum and pray. If
one of his companions has water, he is to ask him prior to performing tayammum. If one
performs tayammum before making a request or demand for water, it is valid according to Abu
Hanifa because it is not binding upon him to make such a demand on another person's
property. The two disciples maintain that he does not acquire the reward because water is
usually given.[Al-Hidaya ٥١].

? Maraky al-Falah ٧٨.

٣ AlFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٠.


٨٤ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


pad Ee at gh Os ssl ols Jy
If the majority or half of the body is injured, one is permitted to perform


tayammum. The limbs which are assessed in this case are those used in wudu.
Therefore, if half of these limbs or the majority is hurt, tayammum is permitted.
For example: if the head, face and arms are injured and yet there is no injury with
the feet, one is permitted to observe tayammum.


atl cae Lak bere o IOS Ul,
If the majority of the body is sound, then one is to wash the unharmed area and


wipe the injured part.
ots Pl ow aot Vs


One cannot combine the use of water and tayammum together; for example, a
person cannot use water for half his arm, and perform tayammum for the other
half. If one does not have enough water to complete washing, then he is to observe


tayammum.


Moreover, if one forgets water during his journey, performs tayammum and
prays, but later remembers that he has water, he is not to repeat the prayer
according to Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, while Abu Yusuf held that he is to
repeat it. The disagreement pertains to the situation of where he placed the water.
Did he place it in a particular place or did someone do so at his command; and
remembering at the time of prayer or thereafter is the same. Note: there are three
scenarios here: a)he placed it himself and did not look for it, b)his slave or
servant did it for him, but he did not know, and c)he did so himself, but forgot. In
the first case, his prayer is not valid on the basis of consensus[ijma]. The other
two cases are discussed here. Abu Yusuf argues that he is a "seeker of water" and
on a journey a traveller is usually prepared with respect to water and looking for it
is required of him. Abu Hanifa and Muhammad hold that there is no such ability
without knowledge, and the water on a journey is readied for drinking and not for
other use. "
meal ail »
Nullifications Of Tayammum
GUS AN Slee Ue dually oy b gl ail way


The factors that nullify tayammum are the same as wudu. It is also annulled
when one has the ability to use a sufficient amount of water to wash the required
parts at least once. The meaning of 'having the ability to use the water' is to have a
quantity of water sufficient for wudu, even if one has only enough to wash each
limb once. Having the ability to use the water also means one's excuse of permitting
tayammum is no longer present, such as the enemy retreating or one's sickness
has been alleviated or it is no longer cold or one has found an instrument by
which to extract water, in which case tayammum is void.





" Al-Hidaya ٥٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨٥


There are also other aspects to consider in relation to the nullification of
tayammum. The first case is that the person in the state of tayammum sees water
prior to offering the prayer, in which case the tayammum becomes void. The second
case relates to one who sees water during prayer, in which case the Hanafis hold
that the sighting of water during prayer invalidates it given that purification has
ended. Shafi'i holds that the tayammum does not become invalid after one has
entered the prayer because the prayer has been called for and entered and
because Allah states[Do not terminate your deeds]." The third case pertains to one
who sees water after the completion of prayer. If one sees water after the time for
the prayer has ended, then one is not to repeat his prayer, and there is no
disagreement concerning this. Though if one sees it prior to the end of the prayer
time, then one is not to repeat his prayer according to the majority of jurists with
the exception of the Maliki Madhhab.'


cbr My cats)& phate O١٥ ١٣}ce ١ Se
The Ruling Of The Wounded With No Hands Or Feet
tee V٩ Bylgb pry heey S| > ager ٩ O"S ١٣]Ogle Sy Gristl ¢ phi,


The one who has no hands and no feet and suffers from a wound upon his face, is
permitted to pray without purification and does not need to repeat prayer(and
this is the soundest view). Furthermore, Ibn Abidin states: The restricted or
limited person who does not possess the two purificatory elements[at-Tahurain};
namely, water or clean earth in that they are constrained to an unclean place and
unable to extract clean earth; or it may be that one's illness prevents one from
seeking water or clean earth, then prayer is delayed according to Abu Hanifa
while the two companions held that one is to resemble and imitate those that pray
and that this is wajib. So one is to bow and prostrate facing the qgibla without
reciting Quran regardless if one is a state of minor or sexual impurity; this is
provided one finds a dry area. If not, then one may offer the prayer through
indication(ie. nodding)while standing. However, this resemblance does not
remove the obligation of offering the obligatory prayer and the prayer must be
repeated when one acquires water or clean earth. This case is similar to that of a
fasting person. For example, when a woman with menses becomes clean during
the day in Ramadan; she is required to abstain from eating the remainder of the
day resembling those who fast and make up the day later. The legal ruling on the
matter has been issued in accordance with this view, and Abu Hanifa later
reversed his decision in accordance with this view(regarding imitation).


Likewise, the one with no hands or feet and with an injury upon the face is to pray
without purification and is not to perform tayammum and is not to repeat the
prayer. If one has no injury upon his face, then he is to wipe it in clean earth if he


" Muhammad ٣٣.
? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٣.


٨٦ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


cannot wash it. Therefore, this ruling differs to the ruling above; in that one who
is unable to find the two purificatory elements(that is, water or clean earth)due to
an illness is required to delay it or resemble those who pray as mentioned
previously and make up the prayer later."!


٢,
"~~


°
oe
°,
"~~


Od! fe abl Ob


Wiping The Footgear(Khuffain)The wiping of the footgear' has been established by the Prophet's sayings and
actions((God bless him and grant him peace)). Scholars have mentioned that it
was sanctioned in the ٩" year of Hijra and there has been a vast deal of narrations
on the matter. From these narrations is what Ibn Khuzayma and Ibn Habban
relate; that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))permitted those
travelling to wipe for three days and three nights, and for the non-traveller - one
day and one night, provided one purified himself and then wore the khuf.
Likewise, it is related from Hassan al-Basri that he said, "J was told by seventy
Companions that the Prophet wiped his khuf, and it is the heart of the sunna, and that the
greatest in merit are the two 'Amrayn', and that(one must)love the Khatanan and that it is
permissible to wipe the khuf." The 'Amrayn' are Abu Bakr and Umar(may Allah be
pleased with them). And the Khatanan are Al-Hasan and al-Husain, the sons of
Ali Ibn Abi Talib(may Allah be pleased with them). Abu Hanifa said that
because this news of wiping the footgear has reached us by way of tawatur(uninterrupted transmission in large numbers), then he fears that one who denies
its permissibility has committed disbelief.'


" Ibn Abidin.

* The footgear typically worn by Muslims are ankle-high leather socks that are worn inside
the shoes. Muslims are permitted to wipe the footgear instead of washing the feet for
wudu. Additionally, the term kAuffain is the dual of kAuf.

* AHkhtiyar.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٨٧


AE Jo cemall Sm
The Ruli: Witing The Khuffain(Footgear,
WS el yew MLN ab ndF ep gd pe WIS gS ycLitly Sle U ee Sad bonito ll re
Y lake o old
It is valid for both men and woman to wipe the khuf(footgear)to obtain


cleanliness from the state of minor impurity," even if the wiping is on something
thick other than leather,' and it is the same if the sole is made of leather or not.


col ily bap
Conditions That Permit The Wiping
bby po tae idl Jo moll ht bis
Seven conditions are required to validate the wiping:
oy gh)AU Spam JF afl Ite ys SOLS fo gly one It pee te ed UI


١- The first requires that they be worn after washing the feet. It is permissible to
wear the khuf even before completing wudu, provided the person completes the
wudu before the occurrence of anything that invalidates it. For example, if a
person begins wudu by washing his feet, wears the khuf, and then breaks wind
before the completion of wudu, the wiping of the khuf is ruined and one must re-
do the process.


aS LA pes Gly
٢- They must cover the feet up to(and including)the ankles.
atom ght sh cle ٥ cp it Le jy We ٤d gill duke ١%]: Sut,


٣- One must be able to continuously walk in them.' It is not permissible for one to
wipe on footgear that have been made from glass, wood or steel.





" One is not permitted to wipe his footgear to acquire cleanliness from major impurity.

: Maraky alFalah states several examples of things other than leather such as /ukh(a thick
cloth)and Kirbaas(which is a thick type of cotton). The definition of Kirbaas is derived from the
dictionary of Legal terms(Masbah al-Munir ٢٧٣). In any case, these feet coverings must hold to
the feet without being tied and they must not absorb water to the skin according to Muhammad
and Abu Yusuf. This is also the saying of Abu Hanifa and the fatwa issued is in accordance
with this view.

٣ It must be possible to continuously walk in khufs for a distant of one farsakh(which is three
miles and more)according to the Hanafis. Given this, it is not permissible to wipe on footgear
that will tear with walking and neither on footgear that is not possible to walk in due to its
weight, such as footgear made from metal and so forth.[Ibn Abidin ١/١٣٩}.


٨٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


e-all glel Poel os poled SG ٣٣٥ SF oe ae IS gh: ells


٤- The fourth condition requires that cach khuf be free from a tear the size
equivalent to three of the smallest toes. If it is less, it is permitted. Imam Zufar
and Shafi'i said that it is not permitted even if the tear is less than this measure,
because the obligation of washing the area exposed makes the washing of the rest
obligatory. The basis of the Hanafi school is that the footgear[khuffain| is usually
not free from minor tears and the people will face hardship in taking them off.
Note: if for example the tears on one khuf are spread out, then it is of no harm if
the sum total of these tears is /ess than the measure described above; and if there
are multiple tears from both khufs, then they are not to be combined; that is, each
khuf is judged on its own. This means that if there are tears on both khufs which
do not prevent the wiping, though if combined would equal the prohibited
measure; it does not prevent the validity of the wiping and the wiping is legal."


des ne cpt ple I fe gSlnerel : lb,
٥- They must hold to the feet without being tied.
Id Af Ul S poy L gare : less


٦- They must prevent water from reaching the skin. Note: they must prevent the
amount of water present on the hand at the time of wiping. They are not
waterproof, but they must prevent this amount from reaching the skin.


Yeo pis LGB OLS yd AI lel rel ope bel OU pad pall pie ye gy OI GL
or ٩٤ phat nde ONS yy ate le emer


٧- For wiping to be valid, the front part of the foot must be physically present, the
length being equivalent to three of the smallest fingers of the hand.' And if one is
missing the front part of his foot, he cannot wipe his khuf even if the heel is
present, because the compulsory place to wipe is absent. It is therefore
compulsory to wash the foot instead. Mere presence of the heel is not sufficient for
the wiping to be valid.


" Radd al-Muhtar ١/٤٦٠.


* This means that the length is to be equal to width of three of the smallest fingers. If not, then
it is not permissible.


BOoK I: PURIFICATION ٨٩


le jlicl, col bbe
The Duration Of Wiping And When It Begins
CAIN J day DIDI ٥g ye all elscal"y ILL LIS BLN, AS, Leys pill eness


A resident(non-traveller)is permitted to wipe his footgear for one day and one
night(i.e. ٢٤ hours)whereas the traveller is permitted three days and three nights(i.e. ٧٢ hours)and this period begins when a person breaks his wudu after wearing
the footgear." Ali(Allah be pleased with him)said that[The Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))had appointed three days and three nights
as the period when a traveller is permitted to observe wiping, and one day and
one night as the period for the non-traveller].


wal es Sle as
Changing One's Status
BLaMI bade Sl ius LE Ld Ble ٣ pada ene Oly


If a resident begins to wipe and then travels before completing his term, then he is


to complete the period permitted for a traveller, which is three days and three
nights.'


ALS y Leys ae Vgc ٦٣ dy ley: cane le dey SL pid OL,


If however, a traveller becomes a resident, and had already wiped for one day and
one night, then the wiping is nullified because he is now a resident, though if he
had not wiped for one day and one night, he is to complete this term.


nw ٩٦g ws
The Portion Which Is Obligatory To Wipe And Its Sunna
os JS pads lb de att abel rl oo elel OW ud ell ٢ ٣٥
It is obligatory to wipe the area equivalent to the three smallest fingers of the
hand over the top part of each foot. Note: if this area becomes wet even with a
cloth or by pouring water over the required area, then it is permissible. Though
the sunna is to use the hand. Additionally, the wiping of the footgear is to be done


once only over the top part of each khuf. It is not valid to wipe beneath the khuf,
nor the back or side of it; and it is not sunna to repeat the wiping."


" For example; if a person makes wudu at ٨:٠٠ am and then wears his footgear, and then at


١٢:٠٠ pm, he breaks his wudu. His duration therefore begins from ١٢:٠٠ pm because it is at that
time in which he first broke his wudu.


? For example; If one's duration of wiping his footgear begins at ١٠:٠٠ am Monday, because
that is when he first broke his wudu; and then later that night at around ٨:٠٠ pm, he becomes a


traveller, he is permitted to keep wiping his footgear until Wednesday ١٠:٠٠ am. This is a total
of seventy two hours.


° Maraky al-Falah ٨٢.


٩٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


BLT Spall asleod usd)oye Se pie plo Vitec acer
It is sunna to begin the wiping from the toes of the feet up to the shin with spread
fingers. It has been narrated that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))passed by a man who was performing wudu and he was washing his khuf,
the Prophet then took him by the hand and said, "Verily, my Lord ordered me to wipe
like this," and the Prophet showed him from the front of the khuf toward the leg
once, and the Prophet spread between the fingers."


cl ail y
Nullifications Of Wiping


elatl as jf dal peace palin y
There are four things which annul wiping;


£ ٢ gl pis + <~ JS
١- Wiping is nullified by all things which nullify wudu. This means that if one
breaks wind for example, then his wudu is void as well as the wiping over the
footgear. Therefore, he must make wudu again and wipe the footgear. However,
he is not required to take off the footgear and wash his feet.


AL Ske SI eal ASI oy Sus gly Bi
٢- The removal of the khuf invalidates the wiping, not wudu. The same mule
applies even if the majority of the foot is revealed, because once the foot is
exposed, the minor impurity extends to the foot which now requires washing.
Moreover, the removal of the khufon one foot requires the removal of the other
and the washing of both.'


ceed fe IG esl guol psi Ul dLely
٣- When the majority of one of the feet becomes wet with water, the wiping is
ruined. This is achieved when over half the foot becomes wet.
Ol cys he y led AE ١ OL BA ge


٤- When the period for wiping expires, the wiping is nullified provided one does
not fear he will lose his leg due to intense cold. If one fears such a thing, then he is
permitted to keep the footgear on until it is safe to take them off. In addition, if
the period expires while one is praying, the prayer is void.


hb ey Pei cVswWiae,


The last three points(namely, point ٢, ٣, and ٤)require only, the washing of the feet,
not wudu.


" Tabarani ٢/٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٨٣.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩١


the ell ٥ £ YL
That Which Is Not Permitted To Wipe On
ale fe ell ٥٥٢ Yo
It is not permissible to wipe on;


The turban. It is unlawful to wipe on the turban in exchange for wiping the head,
because it may prevent water from penetrating the turban and entering upon the
head, in which case the area required to be wiped(i.e. a quarter)was not
performed. It has been reported that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))did wipe on his turban, but what is ascertained from this is that the
wetness would reach his honourable head.{Malik informed that a report reached
me from Jabir Ibn Abdullah that he was asked about the wiping over the turban
and then he said; "No, not without the water touching the hair.""


Ady ٣ ٩ byl s
It is not permitted over the cap, veil or gloves because there is no hardship in
taking off these things. Nafi reported that he saw Safiyyah bint Abi Ubayd
perform wudu, she pulled off her headscarf then wiped her head.' Imam
Muhammad said we adhere to this: the headscarf should not be wiped over, nor


the turban. It has been narrated that the wiping over the turban was performed,
then abandoned. This is the verdict of Abu Hanifa and our fuqaha in general.


Lapuydadl Gd fui
Wiping The Splint Or Bandage And The Like'
dows plan Vy pall Job ahs VOI Dee gG Sy edti ve pas pS sl ox sh sacl lil
paslasclh sl fe aulicrs


If blood is drawn from a limb, or one suffers an injury or broken limb, after
which he applies a splint or bandage, and due to the severity of the injury is
unable to wash or wipe the limb, then it is necessary[wajib]to wipe the majority
of what is used to support the limb. That is, if one is unable to wipe the limb, then
it is necessary to wipe over the splint or bandage. Note: there are two views in the
Hanafi Madhhab concerning whether it is necessary[wajid]or obligatory[fard]to
wipe over the bandage. Abu Hanifa does not deem it obligatory; rather he
maintains that it is necessary[wajib]; and this is the correct view, to the extent that





" Muwattah of Imam Muhammad ٥٢
? Muwattah of Imam Muhammad ٥٣.
* The term jadira is typically two supports made of wood or palm branches and something
similar, which is then wrapped with cotton material over the broken limb. What is similar to


this is everything that is placed upon a part of the body which requires it, such as bandages,
leather or a brace.


٩٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


if one neglects the wiping without the possibility of harm or aggravation, it is
valid, and the prayer is not deemed void. As for the two companions(Abu Yusuf
and Muhammad), Shafi'i and the majority of jurists, they held that it is obligatory
to wipe on the basis that the Prophet wiped over his bandage and that when Ali
broke his forearm during the battle of Uhud, or on the day of Khaybar, the
Prophet ordered him to wipe over the bandages.


They also used as proof that analogical reasoning(giyas| applies here due to the
wiping over the footgear[khuffain|." Abu Hanifa maintained that wiping is an
exchange from washing and that washing beneath the bandage is not necessary if
it becomes exposed, though this is contrary to what is beneath the footgear[Ahuffain]; and he held that the hadith of Ali does not impose the obligation on the
basis that it is a solitary narration[khabar ahad]. He therefore maintained that the
proof is speculative[dAanni]and not decisive{gat 't].'


Furthermore, with respect to the amount required to be wiped, Abu Hanifa held
that it is sufficient to wipe the majority of the bandage and that man has not been
requested to wipe the entirety, given that it would be burdensome and lead to
aggravation of the injury. Shafi'i held that the entirety is to be wiped with water
and that partial wiping does not suffice. This is because the limb requires
complete washing, so likewise with wiping.


Aaah ylvae Spy dtl yo ٥٤ be fe renal! a٥ y


If removal of the bandage would cause aggravation or further harm, then it is
sufficient to wipe the part of the body that is visible between the bandages without
having to remove the bandage. Such an act is undertaken to prevent water from
trickling upon the injury that may result in infection or otherwise. If no harm
would be caused by untying the bandage, then one is to undo it and wash the


unharmed area and wipe the injury; but if wiping(the injury)would cause harm,
then one is to leave it.*


Therefore, in order to wipe over the splint, cast or bandage, it is conditional that
washing or wiping the injured limb not be possible, for fear of causing
aggravation, an increase in pain, or a delay in recovery. Likewise, one must not be
able to remove the bandage or cast for fear of causing further harm or a delay in
recovery. If one believes no adverse consequences will occur from removing the
support, then wiping over the bandage or splint is not permissible. Moreover, the
bandage must not go beyond the affected area. If it does, then one will be
required to undo it and wash the unaffected area behind it provided no harm will
follow."


" Maraky al-Falah ٨٤ / Tabarani - Masnad ash-Shamiyin ١/٢٦٢ / Ibn Majah ٦٥٧.
" Al-Ikhtiyar ٤٠-٤١ | Al-Figh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٥.

* Maraky al-Falah ٨٤.

' ALFigh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٤.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٣


Al-Ikhtiyar states. If the bandage over the injury extends beyond the actual wound
or cut; and untying the bandage and washing beneath it will cause harm to the
injury, then one is to wipe over the entire area(or the majority according to Abu
Hanifa). However, if untying the bandage and washing the unaffected area will not
cause harm, then one is to wash the unaffected area around the wound and wipe
the wound. If wiping the wound will adversely affect a person, then one is[to
leave the bandage tied and]wipe the section directly above the injury. One is also
to wash the area around the injured site and where the bandage has covered
unaffected skin, one is to wipe the untouched area beneath this. This is because
wiping has been granted due to necessity and it is to be restricted according to its
measure. !


ote os y % pels cell ٣

Wiping over the bandage or splint is like washing the area beneath it as long as
the cause is present. There is no time limit on how long a person can wipe the
bandage, though this is contrary to the wiping of the footgear[khuffain], which has
a duration of twenty four hours for a resident — after which one must remove his
footgear and wash his feet. Though wiping one's splint or bandage has no
duration and can be wiped as long as there is a standing reason. The only factor
that does not allow one to wipe over an injury is when the injury heals.


sob Je i ptlae bp Vy


It is not a stipulation to tie the splint(or bandage)in a state of purification. This
means that one is not required to place the bandage upon the injured area in a
state of wudu. However, with respect to wiping the footgear[khuffain], one is
required to wear them in a state of purification.


SPM fab eo che NW Stole eee yt


To wipe the bandage on one foot and wash the other is permissible. However, this
is not permissible for the wiping of the footgear[khuffain].


oll Ji lgb ye elt flaw Vy
The wiping is not nullified if the bandage falls off before the wound heals,


because there is a standing reason according to the Hanafis. However, this is
contrary to Shafi'i and other jurists who hold that its removal or its falling off
invalidates the wiping."


aioke]JuadVly « Ugbe eeu sale]Ut Vy be piu Ugh bys


It is permitted to change one bandage with another. And it is not necessary to
repeat the wiping on the new bandage provided the old one was wiped though it
is preferable to do so. Furthermore, if one places a new bandage on top of the old
one, then he is not required to wipe the top one. Likewise, if one wipes over the


" Al-Ikhtiyar ٤١.
? ALFigh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٦.


٩٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


top bandage and then ruins it(or removes it), one is not required to wipe the
bandage beneath the top one.!


A٦٥٣ ٠ pd y byl pe tdle sf IShe shelyoade far ye th Sl hae pur Yor wl, ae, tity


٤S Fi cello oo ON ٩ ٦ cell I jhe
If one's eye is infected and the physician orders him not to wash it, or one has
broken his nail and has applied medicine upon the injury or an aid or the skin of
an animal for healing, the removal of which is harmful, then it is permissible to
wipe over the medicine. If however, it will cause harm to wipe over the medicine,
then it is permitted to omit the wiping.


ol Mya ntly bl ee Ga I ee V٥


One is not required to form an intention for wiping on the footgear[kAu/], splint,
and head. It is agreed among the scholars that a person is not required to have an
intention when wiping the splint or head, whereas for the wiping on the khuf, it is
evident that intention is not a stipulation although some scholars have stated that
it is.
The Chapter Of Menstrual Periods, Postnatal and Chronic Vaginal Discharge
elt ١ yi
The types of blood
Ablaruly play a> ll ow TF

The types of blood that exit from the female(vagina)are menstrual periods[hayd],
postnatal bleeding[néfas]and chronic vaginal discharge[istihada]. The topic of
menstrual periods is one of the most important issues based on the fact that a vast
amount of rules are derived from it such as divorce, lineage, the permissibility of
intercourse, prayer, fasting, the recitation of Quran, i'tikaf(religious retreat), the
entering of a mosque, tawaf around the ka'bah and maturity. With respect to how
menstrual periods affects divorce is that; divorce is of three types: hasan(proper),
ahsan(more proper)and bid'(innovative). The ahsan form of divorce is that a
man divorces a woman with a single repudiation pronounced during her period of
purity from menstruation during which he has not had intercourse with her. He
then waits until she completes her waiting period('iddah). The hasan form, which
is termed talaq al-Sunna is when a woman whose marriage has been
consummated is divorced with three repudiations pronounced in three periods of
purity(one in each). And ¢alag al-bid'ch(innovation)is when the man divorces her
with three repudiations pronounce in a single period of purity. If one does this,
the divorce takes effect, but one has sinned." It is therefore evident as to why this
subject is of great importance.


" Maraky al-Falah ٨٥.
* Al-Hidayah ١/٢٦٦ | Maraky al-Falah ٨٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٥(al
Menstrual Bleeding |Hayd|

PLES atl ily. ALY ge Als dy > Volpe Yl pp aaiz er Lat
٥ tee Sly duh abu gly


Menstrual bleeding is blood that discharges(forcefully)from the uterus of a
female who has attained puberty, who is not ill or pregnant and has not reached
the age of menopause(which is fifty five years old; and the fatwa issued is based
on this view). The minimum days of menstrual periods are three days and three
nights. The average is five days and the maximum is ten days. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[The minimum period for hayd in the case
of a virgin girl or deflowered women is three days and its accompanying nights,
while the maximum is ten days]." This is proof that is contrary to the view of
Imam Shafi'i who fixes it at one day and one night. Also, the red, yellow and dark
coloured fluid that a woman sees during the period of menses is menstruation,
until she sees pure white." A'ishah(God be pleased with her)deemed whatever
was other than pure white as menses.' Hence, when a woman sees blood for less
than three days after which it discontinues and sees pure white after that, then it
is deemed as chronic discharge[istihada]according to the Hanafi school; while
blood less than one day and one night is deemed as chronic discharge according
to Shafi'.


Supplementary notes from Ibn Abidin"s Hashia


According to the Sacred law, when a person attains puberty, he/she is said to have
matured[baligh]. No girl becomes mature prior to the age of nine years. Note: only
lunar months and years are taken into consideration in Islamic matters. A girl is
said to be mature is she experiences menstruation after the age of nine; or when
she sexually enjoys intercourse in her dream and seminal fluid is discharged; or
she has no menstruation, but becomes pregnant. As for the girl under the age of nine,
if she sees blood, then it is regarded as chronic vaginal discharge[istéhada]; and
this is the strongest view. The same applies to the menopausal woman according
to the evident view in the Madhhab.


The pillar of menstruation is the emergence of blood from the uterus; that is, the
appearance of blood to the immediate part outside the vagina. If the blood
remains in the inner part of the vagina, then it is not deemed menses; and this is
the most evident view upon which the legal ruling[fatwa]coincides with according
-o Quhustani. However, Muhammad held that it is based on the woman feeling it.


Darqutani, al-Zayla'i, vol ١, ١٩١.
_ Al-Hidayah ٦٠.
Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ١٩٣.


٩٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION[It states in Sharh al-Wagayya:| It is recommended for a virgin to use cotton wool,
Sanitary pads or a piece of old clothing during her menses to cover her private
part and for a non-virgin — it is recommended all the time. It is disliked to place
something in the internal area of the private part(as is done with tampons).


The least time for menstrual periods is three days and their nights(the nights have
been added in this text to clarify the extent of time in hours, which is seventy two astronomical
hours). Verily, it is not conditional for the blood to continue throughout this time in
a manner where there is no stoppage for an hour, because this is rare. Indeed, the
discontinuation for an hour or two or more does not invalidate it. And the
maximum time for menstruation is ten days and their nights(or ٢٤٠ hours).


That which is short of the minimum duration(of three days or seventy two hours)even by a
small margin of time is regarded as chronic vaginal bleeding |istthada| and not menstruation.
Al-Quhustani said: "If the woman experiencing menses for the first time sees
blood when half the plate of the sun has risen and its stops on the fourth day
when one quarter has risen, then it is deemed istihada(because it has fallen short of
the minimum duration of seventy two hours), though if half the plate of the sun has
risen, then it will be regarded as menstrual periods. And with respect to the
woman with her regular days, such as five for example; if she sees blood when half
the sun has risen from the horizon and it stops on the eleventh day when one
third has risen, then the surplus above five is deemed chronic vaginal discharge[tstthada], because it increased upon the tenth day with the amount of one sixth."!


The characteristic of menstrual blood — The jurists agree that its colour is red but
Closer to being black, and that it has a foul smell. As for the colours of yellow,
muddy and green during the time of menses, the preferred view according the
Majority of Hanafi, Shafi'i, Maliki and Hanbali scholars is that it is judged as
menstrual blood. And they relied upon the hadith of A'ishah that is recorded in
the Muwatta of Imam Malik:[Woman used to send little boxes to A'ishah with a
Piece of cotton cloth in each one on which was yellowness from menstrual blood,
asking her about prayer. She said to them: "Do not be hasty until you see a white
discharge." By this she meant purity from menses."


ols!
Postnatal Bleeding | Nifas


Postnatal bleeding(nifas)is blood that discharges after giving birth. The
maximum days of postnatal bleeding is forty days. There is no fixed limit on the
minimum period which means the bleeding may stop at any time before the forty
days. Anas(God be pleased with him)is reported to have said that Allah's


" That is, she noticed blood when half the sun had risen and it stopped after the tenth day
when one third had risen. The difference between half and one third is one sixth.
* Muwatta of Imam Malik ٩٩.[Radd al-Muhtar vol. ١/٤٧٤]BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٧


Messenger((God bless him and grant him peace))had prescribed forty days for
women in the state of nifas, except if she is purified before this." Therefore, if a
woman gives birth and sees blood in excess of forty days according to Abu Hanifa
and six days according to Shafi'i, then the excess is deemed as chronic vaginal
discharge[istthada].


soln Vil
Chronic Vaginal Discharge{Istihada}pla dnd dey pad Gite fo alj sl Pll OU we ati po aL YI,


Istihada is the discharge of blood that stops in less than three days or blood in
excess of ten days of menstrual bleeding. Equally, the excess of blood after forty
days of postnatal bleeding is regarded as Istihada(chronic vaginal discharge).
Hence, if a woman begins to bleed and it ceases in less than three days, it is not
menstrual bleeding, it is chronic vaginal discharge[istihada]. Also, the maximum
amount of days for a menstrual period is ten days; the blood after ten days is
regarded as chronic vaginal bleeding. This also applies to the excess of blood after
forty days of postnatal bleeding.


In addition, if a woman with regular days bleeds beyond her regular days of
menses and postnatal bleeding and the blood persists until it breaches the
maximum duration for menses and postnatal bleeding, then it is deemed chronic
vaginal bleeding[istihada]. Equally, the female that sees blood prior to the age of
nine as well as the pregnant woman is considered chronic discharge.


Moreover, if a woman who has a known routine bleeds beyond her regular days of
menses and they are seven for example, then there are two situations that may
occur: ١)if the regular days change during the days of her menses, such as the
menses becoming-nine or ten days, then it is regarded as menses and her regular
days are considered changed. Indeed, it is established that the regular days of a
woman become established even after the one time of menses. Hence, her regular
days are that which she sees last, which may increase or decrease; so she is to fall
back on her last period. The same applies to postnatal bleeding in that a woman's
regular days may be twenty for example; then during the days of bleeding, it
changes to thirty or thirty five. ٢)If the bleeding exceeds ten days and she has a
known habit that is less than ten days(such as seven for example), then she is rely
on her normal course(i.e. seven)and whatever exceeds this is regarded as chronic


vaginal discharge[istihada]."


Nee EE


" Tbn Majah ٦٤٩.
? Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٤.


٩٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


atl oy poll hl
Pure Days between Two Menstrual Periods
o pSV a> Vy ly pe dh ead on poll phi pl,
The minimum days of purification that separates two menstrual periods is fifteen
days. There is no time limit on the maximum days she could be pure for because


it may extend to a year or two and cannot be determined by assessment, though it
is known she will have a minimum of fifteen pure days.


Hence, there is no limit for the maximum days of purity between two menstrual
periods; except for a female who just entered puberty suffering from chronic
vaginal bleeding[istihada]. In this case the scholars calculate for her ten days of
menstrual bleeding from when she first noticed the blood, regardless if she sees
the blood at the beginning of the month, its middle or end. She is to leave prayer
and fasting from the first sight of blood. She is then given a. maximum of fifteen
days in which she is deemed pure and required to offer prayer and fasting.
Women are required to make up the days of fasting in which they are deemed
pure.' Note: Al-JkAtiyar maintains that only ten days are regarded for her as
menstrual periods each month and in the remaining days(i.e. nineteen or twenty
days depending on the month)she is deemed pure and therefore required to
undertake the performance of prayer and fasting. This view is one relied upon in
the Madhhab contrary to the first view mentioned by Shurunbulali in Maraky
Falah that menstruation is ten days and chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]is
fifteen days.'


If however, a girl matures, though is not suffering from chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]and she develops a routine or schedule of regular days regarding
menstruation, though later she suffers from chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]and
the bleeding continues through her regular days and exceed the maximum days
of menstruation[Aayd]or the maximum days of postnatal bleeding[nifas], then she
is to rely on her regular days(or schedule)and whatever increases upon her
regular days is considered chronic vaginal discharge[istihada].' In light of this, she
is to make up the prayers for the days beyond her habit. Note: when a woman has
established a routine, such as seven days for example, though on the following
period she exceeds this and bleeds for twelve days, then due to the fact that she
exceeded the maximum duration of menses, she is to fall back upon her regular
days(which are seven)and anything above this is deemed chronic discharge{istihada|. However, if she had not exceeded the ten days(and bled for nine days
only), then this new number of nine days would be regarded as her new routine
for the following month.


" Nur al-Idah ٥٨.
? Al-Ikhtiyar ٤٦.
٣ Nur al-Idah ٥٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٩


Ibn Abidin states. If a period of purification(i.e. a stoppage of blood)occurs during
a woman's menses(where she bleeds, stops bleeding and then bleeds again), then
it is treated like the continual flow of blood. This is one of several views and the
reasoning is that the continuous flow of blood throughout the period of
menstruation is not a stipulation by consensus. This is one of the two narrations
from Abu Hanifa."


lilly adh sb
Forbidden Actions During Menstrual Periods And Postnatal Bleeding
etl as -lelly pate s٥
Eight things are forbidden for a woman during menses or postnatal bleeding;
e nally suall


١- Prayer is forbidden for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[When the menstruation begins, abandon prayer, and when it is
finished take a bath and pray].'


٢- Fasting, whether it is obligatory or optional, is unlawful on the basis of the
words of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace).


ol all Sod al ool ٣ y


٣- To recite a verse from the Quran is not lawful(i.e. the woman is not permitted
to read a verse of Quran, whether it is from memory or by reading it from the mus-
haf). This is due to the hadith of Ibn Umar who reported that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[The woman in the state of menses is not to
recite anything of the Quran and neither the sexually impure].' The unlawfulness
is the recitation. However, if it comes forth from one's tongue without the intent
of recitation, and was intended as supplication, or praise or intended as
invocation[tasbih], such as to say at the moment of tragedy, "To Allah we belong and
to Him we shall return," or at the time of mounting a beast "Glory be to the one who has
provided this for us, though we could never of had this via our own efforts;" or "Praise be to
Allah;" or "In the name of Allah;" or "O Allah! Forgive me and my parents;" then it is
permissible and not unlawful to utter any such things for there is no breach and
there is consensus among the scholars that invocations, takbir, tahlil(i.¢. there is no god
except Allah)and sending blessings upon Prophet Muhammad is permissible for
the one in the state of menses, postnatal bleeding and sexual impurity.
Furthermore, the Malikis permitted the menstruating woman and the woman
experiencing postnatal bleeding to recite Quran and touch it for recitation for the


" Radd al-Muhtar ١/٤٨٣.
? Abu Dawud ٢٨٦.
* Tirmidhi ١٣١, Ibn Majah ٥٩٦.


١٠٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


need to learn it or for fear of losing it. This rule however differs to one who is
sexually impure on the basis that the sexually impure person is able to become
pure by bathing and this can be done before recitation. However, the
menstruating woman is unable to do this and for that reason, she is permitted to
recite for the purposes of learning and teaching.'


He VI ms


٤ To touch the Quran is forbidden unless it be with a covering that is separate
from the Quran. Allah says[No-one can touch it, except those who are pure]'.
Note: one cannot touch any part of the Quran in such a state. Such parts include
the attached covering, the white part of the paper and the book itself. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[No one besides the person in a state
of purification is to touch the Quran].' It prohibited to touch the verses if they are
written on various items, such as a wall, clothing or piece of treasure or in books.
Moreover, it is unlawful to touch only the verses if they are written in book of
tafsir, hadith, figh and other subjects. However, if the Quranic verses in the books
of tafsir are more than that of the éafsir, then it takes the same ruling of touching
the Quran. As for touching the Quran with one's sleeve, there are two view that
have been reported from Imam Muhammad. The first is that it is prohibitively
disliked and the second is that it is not disliked. Lastly, it is permissible to turn the
pages of the Quran for recitation with certain things, such as a pen."


dome J yoy


٥- To enter a mosque is unlawful. This is due to the hadith that Umm Salam
reported that the Prophet entered the courtyard of this mosque(i.e. the holy
Prophet)and exclaimed with a loud voice,[The masjid is lawful neither for a man
in a state of janaba(major ritual impurity)nor a menstruating female].' And the
ruling for menstrual periods is like the ruling for postnatal bleeding(nifas).


il gly


٦- Tawaf around the ka'bah is forbidden in the state of menstrual periods and
postnatal bleeding, even if the tawaf accepted. This is because purity is
conditional to its perfect performance. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said[Perform that which the pilgrim of hajj performs, though do not make tawaf until
you become clean].° If one performs tawaf az-Ziyarah(a pillar of hajj)in a state of
major impurity, then one must sacrifice a cow or camel and for the tawaf deemed





Maraky al-Falah ٨٨ | Al-F igh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٦-١٤٧.
* Al-Wagi'ah ٧٩.

* An-Nasai, Darqutani and others. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ١٩٦-٩٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.

* Tbn Majah ٦٤٥.

* Bukhari ٣٠٥ / Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠]wajib, one is to sacrifice a sheep, unless she repeats the tawaf in a state of purity. "
Likewise, the one who makes tawaf in a state of minor impurity must sacrifice a
sheep unless one repeats the tawaf in a state of purity.' The Prophet said[Tawaf
around the House is like prayer, except that you may speak. So whoever speaks
should speak about that which is good].


cltls


٧- Sexual intercourse is unlawful for a menstruating woman or a woman in a state
of postnatal bleeding.'


iS Nod Wo plod by pV


٨- Likewise, sexual enjoyment of the area beneath the naval to the bottom of her
knees is unlawful. The basis for this is the hadith: Malik informed us: Zaid Ibn
Aslam informed us that a man asked the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace)), "What part of my wife is permissible to me while she is in her menstrual
periods?" He said, "She should put on her Izar{the large cloth wrapped around
the lower half of the body}, then your concern is with her upper half."> Imam
Muhammad said: this is the verdict of Abu Hanifa. Something easier than this
came from A'ishah who said[He should avoid the place of blood, and he may
have whatever else].


St eb SI > lity att oY pall abaail Ly
If the bleeding for the menstrual period stops due to reaching its maximum
duration of ten days; or the bleeding stops after forty days for postnatal bleeding(which is the maximum duration)then it is permissible for the female to have
sexual intercourse without performing the major bath. The reason is because the
verse in the Quran, in particular the word(٥ dt.)has two different readings. One
is recited with a sukun on the letter(٤٤)and a damma on the letter 'A' and the other
reading with a shadda on the letter(٤)and the letter '٤' and both letters read with
a fat-ha. The one with the sukun implies[Do not approach them until they are pure]ee ee eer
" ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٩.
? Maraky al-Falah ٨٩.

٣ Tirmidhi in the Chapter of Hajj ٩٦٠


* If a person does have sexual intercourse with his wife while she is menstruating, then it is
recommended for him to give charity with a dinar, repent and not do it again. It has been stated
that if the blood was dark, then one should donate a dinar. And if it were yellow, then one
should donate half a dinar. The basis for this charity is the report in Abu Dawud ٢٦٥, which
was authenticated by al-Hakim;((If a man had sexual intercourse with his wife and she is
menstruating, then if her blood was red, then he is to pay one dinar and if it were yellow, then
he is to give half a dinar)). It has also been mentioned that if it occurred at the beginning of the
period, then the amount is one dinar, if not, then half. Additionally, it is mentioned and
confirmed in al-Mabsut that if one says it is permissible to make love to his menstruating wife,
then he has committed disbelief.[(Maraky al-Falah ٨٩].


٥ Muwattah Muhammad ٧٥.


١٠٢ BOOK |: PURIFICATION





meaning the woman may not be approached until her menstrual period has
ceased, and this is at the end of ten days which is the maximum for a menstrual
Period, for if she sees any blood after ten days, it is not regarded as menstrual
periods, and for this reason intercourse is permitted without the major bath.!
However, the other reading recited with the shadda implies bathing which would
be read as[And do not approach them until they purify themselves}.'


Way ٦ bgeed plas Ball pesad gl Load y mans gh pact OF YI Yeale pl aig alaail ot Je V٥
SR Ly Legd gS Ley pally i an inj a pall abadil GU I gM ope DB ae ٥٢ ob
SNe Se > et dy


If however, the bleeding stops short of the maximum duration(for menses and
postnatal bleeding)by the woman completing her regular days, sexual intercourse
in not permitted unless one of the following three is satisfied:


i)she performs the major bath, or


ii)if she is unable to perform the major bath, then she is to perform tayammum
and pray even if it is a voluntary prayer, or

iii)until a prayer becomes due upon her. This occurs when the blood stops with
her regular periods(and she waits until the least amount of time from the end of a
Prayer passes upon her). This time must be sufficient enough to perform the
major bath and begin the prayer by saying 'Allahu akbar,' instead, she does not
perform the bath, nor does she perform tayammum until the time of that prayer
ends. In other words, when the blood of a menstruating woman stops and she has
enough time to either bath, or offer tayammum(with a prayer)before the time of
that prayer expires; though she does not do either of these and waits until the
prayer time finishes thus becoming a debt upon her, then she is permitted to have
Sexual intercourse. And as soon as the time expires(and the time of the new
prayer enters), sexual intercourse is permitted with her even though she has not
bathed or offered tayammum with a prayer. However, if this time is insufficient in
allowing the bath plus the saying of "Allahu akbar" for prayer(before the time
expires), then sexual intercourse is not permissible until she has a bath or waits
for the new prayer time to pass.


To reiterate through an example is the following: if the bleeding stops toward the
middle or end of the time of dhuhr and there is sufficient time for her to bath,
dress herself and say "Allahu akbar," then sexual intercourse is permitted when
the 'asr arrives. If there is insufficient time, then sexual intercourse is not
Permitted only until after sunset(or until she bathes).°


Bee ee ees a)Alikhtiyar ٤٥.

Al-Bagarah ٢٢٢.

" Maraky al-Falah ٩٠ / Radd al-Muhtar ٢/٤٠٣.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٣
Therefore, after the woman's regular days have ended, she cannot have intercourse unless a)she
performs the major bath; or b)offers tayammum(with a prayer); or c)a prayer time elapses on
her(in that she had sufficient time to wash and pray, but did not until a new time arrived).


In addition, if the bleeding ceases short of her regular days, though is more than
three days and less than ten(or less than forty days for post-natal bleeding), then
sexual intercourse is not permitted with her even if she bathes until she completes
her regular days. For example, her menstrual period routine may last for seven
days, but it stopped at five. In this case, sexual intercourse is not permitted even if
she bathes, because the return of blood is likely and this is unaffected by her
bathing before the completion of her regular days. However, she is to pray and
fast as a precautionary measure."


In sum, there are three scenarios arising from the time the blood stops. The first is
when the blood completely stops due to the woman reaching the maximum
duration for menses and postnatal bleeding. The second is when the blood stops
due to the woman completing her regular days; and this stoppage is short of the
maximum duration for menses and postnatal bleeding. The third is when the blood
stops short of her regular days.


Teall Oso ¢ pall oLuclly ald pats


A woman with menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding must repeat the days of
fasting she missed, not prayer. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said[We were
encountered with it(menses and postnatal bleeding)thereupon we were ordered
to make up fasting, but were not ordered to make up prayer]." The reason prayer
is not required to be made up is because after five days which is the average days
of menstrual periods, the prayers have become many and this entails great
difficulty if a woman were required to make up her prayers. Allah therefore eased
the matter and excused them from having to do so after their menstrual period.
With respect to fasting, it is something which comes only once a year and does not
pose difficulty in their makeup due to having the comfort of time before the
arrival of the next Ramadan.[Radd al-Muhtar states.| Menses prevents one from the attaining the status of purity(such as the pure state required for prayer), though there is no harm in undertaking a
bath for physical hygiene, such as the bath for hajj; and the Hanafi scholars did
not deem it unlawful. In-fact, they say it is recommended for the female to
perform wudu for the time of each prayer and sit upon her prayer mat and make
invocations and utter the shahada repeatedly according to what she is able so that
she does not forget her routine of prayer. And in one narration, it states that it is
written for her as the best prayer she used to offer. Moreover, menses prevents
i'tikaf and its validity; and if a woman begins her ¢ 'tikaf in a pure state, menses





" Hashia Ibn Abidin, vol ١/٤٩٠ - Beirut Second Edition, Dar al-Kutub alIlmiyya | AL
Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٥٢.
? Muslim, ٣٣٥.


١٠٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


ruins it if interrupts her during this time. It prevents the necessary act of tawaf as-
Sadr and renders it forbidden for a man to divorce his wife therein, though if he
does, it takes affect. This is termed ¢alag bid. A female becomes mature as a result
of her menses and her waiting period['idda]is linked to her menses. With respect
to the expiation[kaffara]of murder or the expiation of fasting sixty days, menses
do not interrupt the days. However, this is contrary to the expiation of a broken
oath and the like. Furthermore, is it disliked for her to imitate the fasting or not?
The reply is that many of the scholars veered toward its dislike given that fasting
is unlawful; therefore, imitation of it is likewise. The remaining scholars opposed
this view saying that it is recommended for her to perform wudu and sit in the
place she offers prayer, which is imitation of prayer, then why not with fasting.'


Moreover, if a woman experiences her menstrual period prior to exiting Makkah
and did not offer tawaf al-Wada', then it is excused from her and nothing is
required of her unless she becomes pure prior to exiting the buildings of Makkah,
in which case she is to return and offer the tawaf.'


ult! el
That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Janaba(Sexual Impurity)'
lid oth ٤,


Five things are forbidden in a state of major impurity and they are;
ODN oye AT bel ٥٥ SLA
١- Prayer(as the Sacred law imposes the state of purity)."
٢- To recite a verse from the Holy Quran is forbidden in a state of sexual impurity[janaba]. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The one with
the menstrual bleeding and the one in the state of sexual impurity must not recite


anything of the Quran]," and this is the meaning agreed upon, in that one is not
permitted to recite Quran in such a state.


Sl phy tres yoy Gey VI gees


٣/٤/٥/ It is forbidden to touch the Quran unless it be with a covering. This is
because Allah said[None shall touch it except those who are pure]." It is also
unlawful to enter a mosque or to make tawaf around the holy ka'bah. To make





Radd al-Muhtar.

: Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٥١.

* Janaba lexically means "distance" and is used metaphorically in the case of someone who
is obliged to have a major bath(ghusl)because of sexual intercourse or nocturnal
emissions, which makes him distant from being able to approach acts of worship.

* Nisa ٤٣.

* Tbn Majah ٥٩٦.

° Al-Wagqi"ah ٧٩,


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٥





tawaf around the ka'bah is unlawful in the states of sexual impurity. This is owing
to the following: the tawaf(even if it is optional)is offered within the mosque and
purity is required therein. Likewise, tawaf is included in the meaning of prayer as
has been established in the sunna that the Prophet said, "Tawaf around the
House is like prayer, except that you may speak. So whoever speaks should speak
about that which is good."!


That Which Is Unlawful In The State Of Minor Impurity(Hadath)Ll OW Saad feo ٥
Three things are forbidden in the state of minor impurity;
SL YY arcana y Oil ghally sal


Prayer, tawaf around the ka'bah and to touch the Quran without a covering is
unlawful as it is prohibited by Quranic text, even if it is a verse.


yaS> yd sll
Chronic Vaginal Discharge |Istihada]' and Its Ruling
yt GS sey gay Role La iy ely Vy be pe Vy dhe wes V pil le ٥ Lob p٢٥
Jilly ١A ye lyolt bay Oglny ٥p IS Cay by Shely


The blood of istthada(chronic vaginal discharge)is like that of a permanent nose
bleed. It does not prevent prayer, fasting, or intercourse. The one suffering from
chronic vaginal discharge is required to perform ablution at the time of each
obligatory prayer. The same applies for anyone who suffers a chronic condition('udthr), in that they must perform ablution at the time of every prayer, such as a
person who is unable to stop intermittent drops of urine or continually breaking
wind. Other conditions include a perpetual nose bleed or the constant flow of
blood from an injury. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said{The women with extended bleeding is to perform wudu for each prayer]. And
with this ablution, one may pray as many obligatory and optional prayers as he
likes, even if during the prayer he/she is bleeding, or unable to stop urine or wind
from exiting. Note: the term excused[ma'dhur]applies to a person who suffers
from a chronic ailment for a complete prayer time and is therefore unable to
maintain wudu for the time needed to offer the prayer. One is therefore excused
and permitted to offer the prayer even with the presence of the illness.


" Tirmidhi in the Chapter of Hajj ٩٦٠.[Maraky al-Falah ٩١).
* This is known medically as "dysfunctional uterine bleeding."
* bn Majah in his Sunan.


١٠٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Jsdall ¢ ٥٩٤ flay Ls


Nullification Of Wudu For One Deemed Excused
had ٢٥ SM oy Fu Gro sdalle sty fhny

The ablution of those who are excused(due to a chronic condition)is nullified
only when the time of the obligatory prayer ends,(for example: dhuAr time finishes
and 'asr enters. Hence, with the entry of the 'sy, the wudu is no longer valid).
Note: if a person is excused because of his chronic condition of breaking wind,
then even if this occurs during prayer, it does not invalidate it. However, if one
accidentally cuts himself and bleeds, then this breaks his wudu because the
exemption was based on one's chronic ailment, and not for other factors that
nullify wudu. Therefore, if one is excused because of a chronic ailment, then this
does not excuse other factors that are not chronic. Additionally; the time of fajr
ends when the sun rises and not at dhuhr time as some may imagine. Therefore, if
one is deemed excused at fajr time, his wudu breaks with the rising of the sun
according to Imams Abu Hanifa and Muhammad.


pial ٩٣ by
When Is One Deemed Excused
٤٥ yh b po Vag Beall y © yu ll patty plaid od pad Mel Ly pill ae gay go> ly sdee paar Vs


One is not deemed excused until he suffers from the illness for a full prayer time(for example, from dhuhr to 'asr)and in that time there is no let up from the illness
that would allow him enough time to perform ablution and offer the prayer. This
js the condition for its establishment.


pal else by ny
The Condition Required To Remain Excused
٨ gy ٥ we ٥٩ JS J ٠d gm ٩ S aelyo b oy
The condition which is required for a person to be deemed as having an ongoing
excuse is; the illness must occur in every prayer time after it has been established
even if it only occurs once. Meaning, if a person establishes that he has a chronic
ailment(which is to suffer from one's illness for a whole prayer time), then in


order for this person to receive a continuing exemption, he is required to
experience the illness at least once in every prayer time after this.


| The Condition That Nullifies One"s Exemplion
ae JolS ody gle Ny pda ٨S ٦ eee oy oy: eelhil bs


The condition that nullifies a person's exemption to offer prayer in this state — is
the absence of the illness for a complete prayer time, for example; from dhuhr to
gsr, one does not experience his illness, meaning they are no longer regarded as
excused and are therefore subject to normal procedures.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٧


Wye a jlgblly ples Yi ob
The Chapter Of Najasa(Filth)And Its Purification


The chapter of najasa is divided into two categories. The first is the real or true
najasa |najasa hagigiyya|, which is referred to as khubth(meaning repugnant or foul).
This is known as all things whose essence or substance is legally regarded impure
and filthy, such as urine, wine, flowing blood, stool, pus and vomit that is a
mouthful.' The second type is the legal najasa(najasa hukmiyya|, referred to as
hadath, which is an attribute that the law applies upon unclean limbs. That is, it is
either minor or major impurity.


doled! oLil
The Types Of Filth[Najasa]daar y ale ned S]bel as
Filth is divided into two types: heavy and light.
dads! el oy dei
Examples of heavy filth
Upcldy Elanall ase ay AS pani y sod JS VOI py lelaly St ty ce piedl pally HIS deLIU
OLS Ody oye dry Pure pd sll ats ey Syl y baly cleo >


Heavy filth includes things like alcohol, flowing blood,' the meat of a dead anima
and its hide(skin),* the urine of animals whose meat is unlawful such as a human
fox or wolf, the dung of a dog as well as the dung of a predatory animal and it:
saliva, the droppings of a chicken, duck or swan, and whatever discharges from :
person's body which nullifies wudu, such as flowing blood, sperm, madhi(pre
cum), menstrual period, postnatal bleeding and vomit that is a mouthful and s
on.


" Nur al-Idah ٦٢.


? The meaning of flowing blood in this point is blood that flows from its original place t
another location which then requires purification. The blood which pours forth from
slaughtered animal is deemed impure as Allah the Exalted mentioned in the Quran[or bloo
poured forth](Quran ٦:١٤٥). Though the little trace of blood which remains on the meat is put
as well as that which remains in its veins, liver, and spleen. The blood that exits one's body, bt
does not flow from its place is pure according to the correct view(for this does not nullify one
wudu). Likewise, the blood of the flea, lice and ant is deemed pure even if it was a large amoun
The blood of the fish and the blood of the martyr are also deemed pure.(Maraky al-Falah ٩٥).
> That is, animals that have blood flowing through their body. This however excludes fis
grasshoppers, and animals that do not have blood flowing through their body.


١٠٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


teal Lt - aul
Examples of light filth
SS٥Y po ety ed[Spl Sp liSy lly Sb daadi Ul,


As for light filth, it includes the urine of a horse because its meat is permitted to
eat even though it is disliked. However, Imam Muhammad held its meat as pure."
The urine of an animal whose meat is lawful to eat such as a sheep, and the
droppings of birds that are not lawful to eat such as a falcon, hawk and eagle.(Refer to table ١ and ٢ at the end of the chapter). Al-Hidayah, one of the main
Hanafi texts mentions that if one's clothes are soiled by the urine of a horse, then
it does not affect its purity, unless it is excessive according to Abu Hanifa and
Abu Yusuf. This degree of excessiveness is clarified under the next heading.
Muhammad on the other hand held that it does not prevent prayer even if it is
excessive.


Additionally, if one's dress is soiled by the droppings of birds whose meat is
unlawful, to the extent that the soiled area exceeds the size of a dirham, then
prayer is permitted in it. Imam Muhammad held that it is not permissible because
there is no necessity due to the absence of these birds in human habitations. Abu
Yusuf argued that they send their droppings from the air and it is difficult to take
preventative measures against this, hence, the necessity is established.'


op ٤F an
The Degree Of Filth That Is Excused
Rac ye GIS gh Syl gy ٠٩٢ boys Madall ops pm All jad of ity
Regarding heavy filth, the size of a dirham is excused.' The reason this is exempt


is because it is not possible to avoid a little impurity and it is therefore excused.
And the estimation of this unavoidable impurity is up to the size of a dirham. If
however, the amount exceeds this, it is not exempt. Light filth which has afflicted
less than one quarter of one's dress or body, is excused, though if it reaches one
quarter, it is not. If it is asked - as to which item of clothing does one measure the quarter?
The response is that it has been said that the minimum clothing a person can pray
in, is that which covers his private area(i.e. from the navel to the bottom of the
knees). Therefore, if light filth afflicts a person's clothes such as on the sleeve,
pants and bottom, and this amount equals to a quarter of the minimum clothing
for prayer or exceeds it, then it is not excused, though if it is less, it is pardoned.


" Maraky al-Falah ٩٦.
* Al-Hidayah ٣٨.
* Imam Zufar and Imam Shafi' said that such things are impure, whether it is more or less


because the text of law has not made a distinction. The Hanafi position is that a little impurity
is unable to avoid and is therefore pardoned.(Al-Hidayah).


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٩


WY ٩٥ SI Hey oF ses


Likewise, the specks of urine such as that of the head of the pin are excused even
if they come onto one's dress and body. The reason this is the case is because one
cannot prevent this most of the time.


WOVE ye Lege pally QA gf elet AT gb eth fl gl tl Soe op Obes OI I ALS bel Sy


If a bed or soil that has previously been stained by filth, becomes wet because of
the sweat of one who slept on it or because of one's wet feet upon the soil, and as
a result the trace of filth appears on the body or feet, then both are regarded as
impure. If the trace of filth does not appear on the body or feet, then they are not
regarded as impure. The traces of filth are colour, smell, and taste. For example,
if the mattress of a bed that was previously stained by urine became wet due to
the sweat of the person who slept on it, then it is deemed impure if the filth
appears on one's body or clothes. The same rule applies to soil that has previously
been stained by filth and then becomes wet due to the wet feet of a person.


ree Sob NM pas Vib; pe GD ple dk Oy rs VIS


Likewise, a dry clean cloth does not become impure when wrapped in a filthy damp
cloth which does not drip when it is squeezed. The dry cloth remains clean
because the actual substance of the filth cannot separate onto the clean one since
nothing drips from it if it is pressed. For example; a damp unclean sweater that does
not drip any water if it is squeezed is accidentally placed among clothes that are
clean and dry. An unaware person then wraps the filthy sweater with the dry clean
clothes. The result is—the dry clean clothes are not regarded as impure with such a
thing. |
oe ٣ Lob Las ٥٥ Joe py bys pee Vy


A wet cloth does not become impure if it is spread out on dry unclean soil such as
dried urine, and the earth has become damp through the wetness of the cloth. For
example, someone urinated on the ground and an hour later it dries up. One then
comes along and spreads out his wet jumper on this ground where this person had
urinated. He does exactly that, and as a result the ground becomes wet because of
the jumper. Consequently, the jumper remains pure unless some trace of filth
appears on the jumper.


a٣ I gy OY]o Sool Obs Joc wy Vy


Furthermore, a cloth does not become impure if it has been struck by a wind that
has blown over some filth, unless the filth becomes visible on the clothes. In other
words, if a wind blows over some filth and thereafter blows over items of clothing
or the like, the clothes are not deemed filthy or impure unless the filth is evident
on the items.


" See table ٣ at the end of this chapter.


١١٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Purification Of The Filth
Ally Gab pl el pas Vy ermal fe ayes gly lpr Shy Ai Seley mcs glans


Visible filth(even if it is heavy)is purified by removing the actual filth itself even
if this is achieved by washing it once. This is the correct view according to Abu
Hanifa. If its removal is difficult, there is no harm if some trace remains, such as
colour or smell. And this degree of difficulty is achieved when one is required to
resort to other than water for the removal of the impurity such as soap. In
summary, washing is not a stipulation after the substance has been removed.
'There are however, many opinions on that which can be removed by one washing
and that which cannot."


By NS pally UW ia is Ms,


If the filth is invisible, it is to be washed three times and wrung after each wash.
Washing the invisible filth three times is obligatory. Though, according to Imam
Shafi'i it is compulsory to wash seven times, and one of the times with soil for the
filth of the dog.


٣ yl gb ples
Liquid Purifiers
os Qeoleg JAS eye Sle IS UL Sadly GI ٣٦ dale ry


Filth[najasa]is purified from the body and clothes with water or any liquid that


removes filth, such as vinegar and rose water.
db CIS hy ٠ oe oles ope Wb ory att gl y


The footgear and the like are purified by rubbing them on the ground or soil
provided the filth is in a solid form even if it is moist. The majority of the scholars
hold this view. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said, "If anyone
stepped on something of harm with his khuf, then the purification of that is soil,"
and the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said, "If one arrives at the
mosque then he should observe his khuf, if he sees upon his khuf, something of
harm or filth, then he should wipe(rub)them and pray with them." Al-Hidayah
maintains the following[In the case of it being moist, it is not permitted until the
boot is washed]for the reason that rubbing on the soil will increase it and not
purify it. However, Abu Yusuf held that if he rubs it on the soil until no effect of
impurity remains, it is deemed pure."


Al-Hidayah ٣٨.
? Abu Dawud ٣٨٥ and ٦٥٠.
° Al-Hidayah ٧١.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ١١]Tebh ops y tt ghey


Swords and the like, such as metal objects are purified by wiping them either in
soil or with a cloth because in this situation, the filth cannot penetrate. The
Companions(God be pleased with them all)would kill a disbeliever with their
swords, and then wipe them and pray.


ges encall ٠.٩٢ Upcle Ballo jle Gir y G٢)ye Ube plead lily


When the traces of filth disappear from the ground, such as the colour and smell
of urine, and the ground becomes dry, prayer is permitted on that very ground.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Any ground which is
dry, then verily it is pure]. However, tayammum is not permissible from that
ground because from what is determined is that the ground must be pure with
respect to itself and purifying for other things, as commanded by God[Perform
tayammum with clean sand or earth]," and this soil is pure with respect to itself,
but is not purifying for other things and for this reason one cannot perform
tayammum with this earth.


dilime SUIS y pt gel: be play


Likewise, what is upon the earth such as trees(plants)and standing grass become
pure from filth upon drying.


WG ٥ fol gh A be ols Gre SL ILL phi,


Filth is purified when its essence(that is, its substance or structure)molecularly
transforms into something else, such as a pig becoming salt, dust or soap or fire
has turned it into ash. Another example is wine turning into vinegar. This means
that the essence of the thing is no longer in its original form.


abn; de JN pgleny OAS y SI ye ٤S ey GUN ll pple


Sperm[mani]which has become dry is purified by scratching it off the clothes and
body, even if it is the discharge of a female. And wet sperm is purified by washing
it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Wash it if it is wet
and rub it if it is dry].? Imam Shafi'i held that sperm is pure. However, this is
contrary to the proof Abu Hanifa adopted; namely, the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[The dress is washed due to five things.]and among
them he mentioned Mani(sperm)}."





" Al-Maida ٦.
: Darqutani, ١/١٢٥.
٣ Darqutani. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٢١٠. Al-Hidayah, ٧١.}! BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Ua priy EM de Bly Gb Jead
Purifying The Hide(Skin)Of A Dead Animal
Vy ٢ DH ale VI meets Se IS ASL y ob WS Ratt ELL EM Ube pple


Th hide(skin)of a dead animal(including that of the dog)is purified via true
taxing.' This can be achieved by using karadh(which are pods of the mimosa
plat that are used to remove the foul smell and dampness and keep it from
rusing. Salt and the peel extracts of oranges are also common in this process), or
thhide may be tanned by something that has the same legal status as true
taming, such as cleansing the hide with soil or placing it in the sun. The Prophet((G@d bless him and grant him peace))said, "Hide which has been tanned is
pur." The hide of a pig however, does not become pure by any means of
taming. The same applies to the skin of a human due to its dignity.


٤ pe real fo aad ٠٥٢ A SU pe tle Le AISI! gles y


The hide of an animal whose meat is unlawful is purified if it is slaughtered in
acordance with Islamic Law, whilst the meat remains unlawful, and this is the
conect view which the fatwa coincides with. One must keep in mind that this rule
exudes the pig. This means that the skin of an unlawful animal is purified
witout requiring the process of tanning provided it is slaughtered in the way
Ishm prescribed(though the meat remains unlawful).


Threfore, if the animal is dead, its skin is purified by true tanning or something
ofiimilar legal status. Additionally, if the animal whose meat is not lawful is
slaghtered in accordance with Islamic law, the skin is rendered pure, while the
mat :s not. The slaughtering in effect compensates for the tanning.


ps bbe shanty SIAN Oily ٥٩ pred a My pratt bl nme Y pl ad ss Vepgt So
tena J wen waslls :


Allother parts of the animal which blood does not flow through is regarded as
pur such as the hair and feathers that have separated from the animal, including
thehorns, hoofs and bones that contain no fatty grease. However, the nerves are
impure according to the soundest view.


SMe ast, GLAS ٣ lb ALM daly


" Thevord tanned or tanning is to make an animal's skin into leather by treating it with
ctenicals. A tanner is the word used for a person who does this.(Oxford dictionary).
? A:Tsmidhi, the Book of Purification(The Tanned Hide of a Dead Animal)١٧٢٨.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١١٣


Also, the skin that contains the musk is pure including the musk itself and it is
permissible to eat. This musk(or perfume)is found in the body of a deer, gazelle,
and antelope." The author added the permissibility of eating the musk because
there are many things which are regarded as pure, but they are not permitted to
eat such as soil. So he clarified the verdict in regards to eating the musk.


٤ Cagle Be cena lb ob ily


Civet is deemed pure. Civet is a strong smelling yellow substance secreted by a
civet cat and is used in the making of perfume. This substance, which is foam or
froth, is taken from a pouch under the tails of male and female civet cats. A civet
cat is a small spotted and stripped carnivorous mammal found in Asia and Africa.
Civet has a very strong smell and its scent is similar to musk, but has a more
smoky, sweaty aroma. It is permitted for one to pray whilst he is perfumed in it
for the reason that it has undergone transformation into an aroma. This is similar
to the musk found in a gazelle. And something that has undergone
transformation is regarded pure."


Table ١ Faecal matter
from birds





Non-edible birds Edible birds(non-permissible)Such as a pigeon,
such as an eagle and sparrow & chicken
hawk


Flying birds Flying birds Non-flying birds


Such as an eagle and Non-flying birds Such as pigeon and Such as turkey and
hawk Sparrow chicken


Light filth Heavy filth Heavy filth





" Language of Jurisprudence, Maraky al-Falah ١٠٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ١٠٣.


١١٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION









Table ٢






Predatory Animals -
Such as a fox, wolf and lion.






Nen-Predatory Animals
Such as sheep.


Table ٣










A clean dry cloth which is
wrapped inside a damp
filthy cloth







If the filthy cloth would drip
when squeezed, then the
clean cloth is deemed filthy
if a trace becomes evident. If
not, then not.















If both would not drip when
wrung, then the clean cloth


remains pure


If water can be squeezed out
of both, then both are
deemed filthy.







its


The Chapter
of Prayer


Alsuatld plas ape yacCd play asl ya It dl aah,


SS)praennaenoen ns


١١٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





Book II: Prayer
CONTENTS:


The Chapter Of Prayer
Conditions That Obligate Prayer
The Reason Which Obligates Prayer
The Times Of The Obligatory Prayers
Not Joining Two Prayers In The One Time
Recommended Prayer Times
The Prohibited And Disliked Prayer Times


The Chapter Of Adhan(The Call To Prayer)The Ruling Of The Call To Prayer And The Call To Commence
The Sayings Of The Adhan And Iqama
Recommended Actions For The Caller
That Which Is disliked In The Adhan And Iqama
Calling The Adhan And Iqama For Missed Prayers
What The Listener Should Say


Conditions Of Prayer And Its Pillars
That Which Is Required For The Validity Of Prayer
The Pillars Of Prayer
Conditions Of Prayer
Branches Associated With The Conditions Of Prayer
That Which Is Associated With The Condition Of Purity
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Covering One's Nakedness
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Facing Qibla
The Wajib Elements Of Prayer
The Sunan Of Prayer
The Etiquette Of Prayer
How The Prayer Is Performed


The Imamate
Its Rank And Ruling
Conditions That Validate The Position Of Imam
Conditions that Validate The Following Of The Imam
When The Follower Is Better Conditioned Than The Imam
Exemptions From The Congregational Prayer
The Most Entitled To Be Imam And The Etiquette Of The Lines
The Imamate That Is Disliked
The Position Of The Follower
The Manner Of The Lines
What The Follower Is To Do After The Imam Completes A Pillar
Remembrance After The Prescribed Prayer


١٢١
١٢١
١٢٢
١٢٢


١٢٥
١٢٧


١٣١
١٣١
١٣٢
١٣٣
١٣٤
١٣٥
١٣٥


١٣٦
١٣٦
١٤٢
١٤٣
١٤٣
١٤٣
١٤٤
١٤٦
١٤٧
١٥١
١٥٩
١٦٠


١٦٥
١٦٥
١٦٥
١٦٦
١٦٨
١٧٠
١٧١
١٧٣
١٧٥
١٧٥
١٧٦
١٧٧


BOOK I: PRAYER


Nullifications Of Prayer
That Which Does Not Nullify The Prayer
That Which Is Disliked In The Prayer


Placing A Barrier And Preventing The Passer-by From Crossing
That Which Is Not Disliked In Prayer


Cutting Off The Prayer
The Ruling Of Neglecting Prayer
The Witr Prayer


Supererogatory Prayer(Nawafil)Greeting The Mosque[Tahiyyah], The Prayer Of The forenoon(Duha)And Night Vigil Prayer.
Voluntary Prayer While Sitting And Prayer Upon A Beast
Sitting For The Voluntary Prayer With The Ability To Stand
Voluntary Prayer Upon A Beast


Obligatory And Wajib Prayer Upon A Beast
Prayer In A Carriage(Howdah)Ritual Prayer On A Ship(Boat)Tarawih Prayer

Prayer In The Kabah


Prayer Of The Traveller
The Travel Due To Which The Rules Change
The Shortening Of Prayer
Conditions That Validate The Intention Of Travel
The Ruling Of Shortening Prayer
The Period Of Shortening Prayers
When Is An Intention Of Residing Not Valid
A Traveller Praying Behind A Resident And Vice Versa
Making Up Missed Prayers
One's Place Of Dwelling, Its Types And What Invalidates It


Prayer Of The Sick Person
How The Prayer Of A Sick Person Is Performed
Branches


١٧٨
١٨٨
١٨٨


١٩٦


١٩٨


١٩٩


٢٠٠


٢٠١


٢٠٥
٢٠٧


٢١٠
٢١٠
٢١١


٢١٢


٢١٣


٢١٣


٢١٥


٢١٧


٢١٩
٢١٩
٢٢٠
٢٢٠
٢٢٢
٢٢٣
٢٢٣
٢٢٤
٢٢٥
٢٢٥


٢٢٧
٢٢٧
٢٢٩


٧


١١٨ BOOK tI: PRAYER


When Prayer And Fasting Are Excused From One's Responsibility
When Is One Not Required To Make A Will
When Is One Required To Make A Will
The Stratagem In Acquitting The Deceased Of His Debt
Recipients Of Fidya


Performing Missed Prayers
The Ruling Of The Order Of Prayer
That Which Excuses The Order


Catching The Prescribed Prayer
When Is It And Is It Not Permitted To Cut Off Prayer
The Ruling Of Making Up The Sunna Prayers
Branches


The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness « Sujud as Sahu »
Its Ruling And The Reason For It
Intentionally Omitting a Necessary Act
When To Perform the Prostrations
When the Prostrations are Excused
The Ruling Of The Follower And The Latecomer
Branches


Doubt During The Prayer


The Recital Prostration « Sujud at-Tilawa»
The Cause Of The Recital Prostration And Its Ruling
The Verses Of Prostration
Who Is Required To Prostrate
With What Thing Can The Prostration Be
Carried Out? And When To Perform It
When Is A Sitting Replaced
That Which Does Not Alter A Sitting

Branches
Conditions Of The Recital Prostration
How To Perform The Recital Prostration


The Prostration Of Gratitude « Sajda alShukr »»
Its Ruling
How It Is Performed


A Vital Benefit That Prevents Calamities


The Friday Prayer
Conditions That Obligate the Friday Prayer
Conditions That Render The Friday Prayer Obligatory
Conditions That Validate The Friday Prayer


٢٣٠
٢٣٠
٢٣١
٢٣٢
٢٣٢


٢٣٣
٢٣٣
٢٣٣


٢٣٦
٢٣٦


٢٣٩


٢٤٠
٢٤١
٢٤١
٢٤١
٢٤٢
٢٤٢
٢٤٣


٢٤٦


٢٤٨
٢٤٨
٢٤٩


٢٥١


٢٥٣
٢٥٤
٢٥٥
٢٥٦
٢٥٦


٢٥٦
٢٥٦
٢٥٧


٢٥٧


٢٥٨
٢٥٨
٢٥٨
٢٥٩


BOOK II: PRAYER


The Sermon And Its Sunan


When Is One Required To Attend The Friday Prayer
Branches


The Eid Prayers
Its Ruling And Condition That Render It Wajib
Recommendations On The Day Of Eid Al-Fitr
The Time Of Eid Prayer
How To Perform The Prayer
The Ruling Of Missing The Prayer Of Eid And Delaying It
The Rules Of Eid Al-Adha And Its Variances To Eid Al-Fitr
The Ruling Of The Takbir Al-Tashriq And Upon Whom Is It Wajib


The Prayer Of The Solar And Lunar Eclipse And The Fear Prayer
The Drought Prayer « AtIstisga »


The Fear Prayer
Its Ruling And Reason
How To Perform The Prayer


Excessive Fear


٢٦١
٢٦٤
٢٦٤


٢٦٧
٢٦٧


٢٧٣


٢٧٥


٢٧٧


٢٧٩
٢٧٩
٢٨٠


٢٨١


١١٩


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٢١
LSI wks


The Chapter of Prayer


Linguistically, prayer means supplication, and according to Sacred law, it is
specific words and actions that begin with an opening takbir[Allahu akbar]and
end with finishing salams.


* Jabir related that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The
link between a Muslim and disbelief is the neglect of prayer]Muslim.


« Buraydah, Allah be pleased with him, related that the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[The bond between us that separates us from the rest
of human kind is prayer. Whoever neglects it will become a disbeliever]Ahmad
and Nasai.


On the basis of these hadith and others, Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal held that
whoever intentionally neglects prayer will become a disbeliever. Whereas Imam
Shafi'i held, such a person is to be given the death penalty, whilst he is still
regarded as a believer. Abu Hanifa held, that such a person is jailed indefinitely
or until he repents making up the prayers.


leper by
Conditions That Obligate Prayer


LOW ene i b ity
The conditions that render prayer obligatory are three;
haally & bly pH!


Islam, maturity and sanity. A disbeliever is not subject to prayer and neither is a
child until they mature.


dete Vd od ele o pay ee aed VIM ٢ Hy


One is to order his children to pray at the age of seven, and hit them to pray at
the age of ten for neglecting prayer, with the hand not with the stick. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "Order your children to pray at the age
of seven, and discipline them at the age of ten, and separate their bedding(regarding their sleeping area}."" Note: hitting in this context does not mean to
injure or to inflict physical pain; rather it means to use sensible and reasonable
discipline. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))forbade the hitting
of the face and Allah said about the Prophet[You have not been sent except as a
mercy unto mankind].


" Abu Dawud ٤٩٥.


١٢٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


leyprs —


The Reason That Obligates Prayer
lee ply cd Mh ٢٥ lei si LL,


The reasons that obligate the five daily prayers are its times, i.e. when the time of
prayer arrives, one is obligated to pray. And it is necessary to perform prayer at
the beginning of the prayer time which is allocated for the prayer. Note: the term
wajib muwassa' means that the Law Maker has allocated an extended time to
perform an obligation; and that such time is sufficient to perform the required act
and others acts of the same kind alongside it. For example, the time for the dhuhr
prayer is an extended time which fits both the dhuhr prayer as well as the
performance of other prayers alongside it. It is therefore necessary to perform the
prayer, such as dhuhr at the beginning of this time period. Furthermore, if the time
becomes limited or restricted, then it means that the time is only sufficient
enough for the act itself and no other. This is known as wajib mudayyig. Thus,
should one delay his prayer right until the end of the prayer time, such that it is
just enough time for the prayer itself, one is required to offer the obligation
immediately.


doy all ol pall Sb yi
The Times Of The Obligatory Prayers
nat g gl fo٥ SI Gobel pail! pb op ead LE SUSY,
The times are five;
١/ The dawn prayer(fajr)begins at true dawn and ends just before sunrise. True
dawn is when the sky around the horizon begins to increase in light, before this, a


dim light sometimes appears overhead for several minutes, followed by the
darkness, and this is termed the deception dawn.


GU Lely oh en YB ٥ gee alte gf ate ٢ ge IS IB pene OT MY eI S٥٥ ye sgl ayy
in Lali S٩٥ ٠ ٩ syleabll


٢/ The time for the noon prayer[dhuhr]begins after the suns zenith at midday and
ends when the shadow of all things upright becomes, i)twice as long or, ii)equal
to the object, with an allowance made for the original shadow at noon.' Imam al-
Tahawi opted with the second ruling and it is the saying of the two companions
Imam Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf including the majority of the fuqaha


" Usul al-Fiqh, Wahbi az-Zuhayli vol, ١/٥٧ | Maraky al-Falah ١٠٥.

* Note: the original shadow at noon is the measure of the shadow as it stood when the sun was
at its peak. Therefore, an addition of the original shadow of that object at noon time is to be
taken into account. 'This means that it is the double shadow plus the original shadow at noon
according to Abu Hanifa; whereas according to the two companions, it is the equal shadow plus
its original shadow at noon.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٢٣


such as Imam Malik, Shafi'i and Ahmad Ibn Hanbal. Abu Hanifa opted with the
former ruling(i.e. double)and it is the ruling that is the most correct and which
the majority of Hanafi scholars have upheld. Note; there is no dispute concerning the
beginning of the dhuhr prayer, rather, it is about its end. Therefore, the dhuhr time begins
when the sun moves from its meridian. There is no dispute regarding this. According to the two
companions, it ends when the shadow of an object is equal to itself, after which the 'asr time
enters. According to Abu Hanifa, dhuhr ends when the shadow of an object is double itself,
after which the 'asr enters.


The reason Abu Hanifa's view is maintained as the most correct, is due to
caution; because according to the narration of Asad from Abu Hanifa, if the time
of dhuhr expires when the shadow of things becomes equal to itself, then 'asr does
not arrive until the shadow becomes twice as long. There is therefore a period in
between which is disused. It is therefore cautionary to pray the dhuhr before the
shadow becomes equal to the object and offer the 'asr after the shadow has
become twice as long as the object. This will ensure that both prayers are offered
within their timings with certainty. This is also the view in al-Mabsut."


The two companions, Abu Yusuf and Muhammad used as their proof, the
imamah of Jibril(Allah's peace and blessing upon him)where he led the 'asr
prayer on the first day at this time. The hadith is as follows: Ibn Abbas reported
the Apostle of God as saying[Jibril led me at the House(i.e. ka'bah)twice. He
prayed the noon prayer with me on the first day when the sun had passed the
meridian, and prayed the afternoon prayer with me when the shadow of all things
was equal to itself, On the second day, he prayed the noon prayer with me when the
shadow was equal to itself, and prayed the afternoon prayer when the shadow of
all things was double itself. Then he(Jibril)said: Between these times is time for
yourself and your nation].'


Abu Hanifa used as his proof(for the double shadow), the hadith of the Prophet[In very hot weather delay the dhuhr prayer until it becomes(a little)cooler
because the severity of heat is from the raging of the Hell-fire]." Abu Hanifa used
this hadith to show that there is no coolness when the shadow of a thing is equal
to its size especially in the Hijaz area. He also used the ast part of the hadith of
Jibril above saying that because Jibril led the dhuhr prayer when the shadow of
things was equal to itself, is a proof that it is the time of dhuhr and not 'asr. And it is
about this point wherein the dispute lays.'


wt SN y eS ould gl ell le sob Sl lial yo nani ody,


" Al-khtiyar ٥٧ | Maraky al-Falah ١٠٦.

٢ Abu Dawud ٣٩٣ | At-Tirmidhi ١٣٩ | Darqutani ١/١٦٨. This hadith has been deemed sound
by Ibn Khuzayma, Ibn Habban and al-Hakim in his Mustadrak ١/١٩٣.[Maraky al-Falah ١٠٦}.

* Bukhari ٥٣٦.

' Al-Hidayah ٨٣.


١٢٤ BOOK Il: PRAYER


٣/ The time of the mid-afternoon prayer('asr)begins when the shadow begins to
increase on the object it has doubled or equalled, until sunset; meaning, the mid-
afternoon prayer begins at the end of the noon prayer and ends at sunset.


٤ gall fo AM Git yo Seow lly


٤/ The sunset prayer(maghrib)begins when the sun has completely set and ends
when the dominant glow of red from the horizon has disappeared, and the fatwa
is in accordance with this. This is the view of Abu Hanifa and the saying of Ibn
Umar(Allah be pleased with him)who mentioned[The red horizon]." Likewise, it
is related from some of the great Companions. One should bear in mind that the
red colour of the horizon after sunset lasts for some time, thereafter the white
colour of the horizon appears. It is about these colours that scholars have differed.
The book al-Ikhtiyar another Hanafi text states that it is the white colour that
determines the end of the sunset prayer and the commencement of the nightfall
prayer, since it was the way of Abu Bakr, A'ishah and Mu'adth(may Allah be
pleased with them all). Al-Shafi'i said that it is up to the time in which three
rak'ahs can be performed, because angel Jibril(God's peace and blessing be upon
him)led the prayer on both days at the same time. However, the Hanafi Madhhab
relies on the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[The
first timing for maghrib is when the sun sets, while the last timing is until the
disappearance of the evening glow].


Comal Se ٥ gly clea,


٥/ The time of the nightfall prayer('isha)and witr prayer begin when the red
colour of the horizon disappears from the sky, and ends a little time before true
dawn, according to Abu Hanifa. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Verily, Allah has increased upon you, a prayer, and verily it is the
witr prayer. So pray it between the nightfall prayer('isha)until the rise of dawn].°


ade LS Deda tt d coy pM Weledl fo sill pus Y,


The wifr prayer is not to be performed before the 'sha prayer due to the
sequential order, which is waytb. If the time of the 'sha prayer does not arrive then
it is not compulsory to perform them(i.e. the 'isha and witr). In some countries
such as Antarctica, true dawn appears before the end of sunset, meaning nightfall
does not occur; and in these areas, in these times that it occurs, the 'isha prayer is
not compulsory, nor is the prayer of witr because the reason that renders it
compulsory is the coming of the time; yet that did not occur, and if the reason
does not occur then the prayers that require the time are not compulsory.


" Al-Baihaqi ١/٣٧٣.
٢ At-Tirmidhi, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٢٣٠.
* Ibn Hajar, Adiraya ١/١٨٨.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٢٥


٩٣ diy rt Y
Not Joining Two Obligatory Prayers In the One Time
pel oy perdi ela Vy phe PLY by cOW Ge GY a Sy Ge bin WEY


pene rag pass ٣

One is not to join two obligatory prayers in the one prayer time even with an
excuse such as travel or rain, for it is not valid to advance a prayer when its time
has not arrived, and neither is it valid to delay a prayer until the arrival of another
unless it be at Arafah for hajj, with the condition that one performs the prayers
with the great imam and with the condition that one is in ihram. Accordingly, the
pilgrim is to join the noon prayer and mid-afternoon prayer together at midday(dhuhr). The prayer is an advanced combining. That is, when the time of dhuhr
arrives, both prayers are offered with one adhan and two igamas usually at Masjid
Namira and no sunna is to be offered in between them.


Ata jay Leal y — all Cw ants
They also join the sunset and nightfall prayer in Muzdalifah. The prayer is a
delayed joining of prayers; meaning the pilgrims are to wait until the arrival of the


nightfall prayer and then offer both the sunset prayer and nightfall prayer with
one adhan and one iqama.


idle» Seb GOAN SZ Ly
The sunset prayer(maghrib)is not permitted to be prayed on the road to


Muzdalifah. It is performed in Muzdalifah. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[The prayer is ahead of you(i.e. at Muzdalifah]."


Beall OU gl opp Cred


Recommended Prayer Times
Je VU adh eV rns


It is recommended for a man to pray the fajr at the glow of dawn, i.e. when the
sky brightens. The Prophet((Peace be upon him))said[Perform the morning
prayer at the shinning(time of dawn), as your reward will be greater].? The reason
the reward will be greater at the glowing time of dawn, is because the gathering is
larger, though when it is still dark, the gathering is less; and that which is offered
in a larger group is superior. Additionally, Anas reported the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))saying[Whoever prays the fajr in a group, and then
sits and remembers Allah until the rising of the sun after which he offers two
rak'ahs, then it will be for him a reward like that of a complete hajj and complete
umrah].* With respect to a woman, its performance early when the dawn has not yet become
bright is recommended.


" Bukhari ١٦٦٩.
? Narrated by the five.
> AtTirmidhi, the Book of Prayer ٥٨٦. Maraky al-Falah ١٠٨.


١٢٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


٤٣ ٥d ot ey SV ce Glows nall ٣ bl ot pV)In summer(or hot conditions)it is recommended to delay the noon prayer until it
becomes cooler. Though in winter time(or cool conditions)it is recommended to
pray it early unless it is overcast in which case it is better to delay, in order to be
certain the time has arrived. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[In very hot weather, delay the noon prayer, till it becomes(a little)cooler,
because the severity of the heat is from the raging of hellfire].' With respect to
offering prayer in cool conditions[The Prophet would offer the noon prayer
earlier if it was very cold].'


nal ph Ae past by


It is recommended to delay the afternoon prayer['asr]in winter and summer, but
not to the extent that the sun(changes and)becomes pale in colour. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Would delay the afternoon prayer as long
as the sun was still clear white].*> The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[The following is the prayer of the hypocrite, he waits until the sun is
between the horns of Satan, then he gets up and observes four rak'ahs and does
not remember Allah except a little].


elen ddews


During overcast conditions it is recommended to perform the afternoon prayer
earlier in order to avoid the period which is disliked to perform prayer in. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))stated[Observe prayer earlier on a
cloudy day, for one who misses the afternoon prayer has destroyed all his work].°


ad F٣٣٩ tend Yo All pany
It is recommended to offer the sunset prayer(maghnb)early in winter and
summer, to the extent that between the adhan and iqama should be the time
equivalent to reciting three verses of Quran, except in overcast conditions, where
it is better to delay to be sure it has arrived. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[My nation will never cease to follow their natural


behaviour, so long as they do not delay the sunset prayer till the stars appear in a
large number}.°


eal dabeesy JUL EL SI clad nati


" Bukhari ٥٣٦.

* Bukhari ٩٠٦.

° Abu Dawud ٤٠٨.

* Narrated by the group.

* Ahmad and Ibn Majah ٦٩٤.
* Tbn Majah ٦٨٩.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٢٧


It is recommended to delay the nightfall prayer('ska)until the first third of the
night. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Would it not be a
burden upon my nation, I would have delayed the 'isha to a third of the night or
half]." However, during overcast conditions, it is preferable to perform the 'isha


prayer earlier due to the minimal gathering present based on anticipated rain or
hail.


ol YL Se oh JAN oT WW sgl pot y


It is recommended to delay the witr prayer to the end of the night if one is certain
he will be alert; meaning if one is sure that he will awaken from sleep and perform
the witr before fajr, then this is preferred. The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[Whoever fears that they will not rise(for ¢ahajjud prayer)at the
end of the night, then he should pray witr at the beginning of the night and
whoever intends to rise at the end of the night, then he should perform it at the
end(of the night)].'


oe, .% .©@
"٩ "° "~~


٤b ٠ SS Sy Dall Ga pF SOU IG
The Prohibited And Disliked Prayer Times


There are three times during which it is not valid to perform obligatory and
necessary prayers that were due upon a person prior to these times. For example:
fajr becomes a debt upon a person prior to the sun rising. Therefore, if the fajr
prayer is delayed until the time when the sun begins to rise, it becomes invalid to
perform it at such time until it has completely risen. In addition, examples of


necessary prayers are vowed prayers, the prayer of tawaf, or a ruined voluntary
prayer.


CEFN SY! atl g ylb are
The times are:


١/ the rising of the sun until it completely rises to the height of a spears length.
Hence, the fajr is not valid for a person performing it whilst the sun is rising.


Ja Fl HL Ysl nt re


٢/ when the sun is at its midday zenith(that is, its peak)prayer is not valid based
on the hadith of Uqbah which is mentioned in the next point.


w Ol Sa avl ey


" AtTirmidhi ١٦٧ and Ibn Majah ٦٩١.
? Muslim ٧٥٥.


١٢٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


٣/ when the sun draws near to setting until it sets(that is, from when it changes
colour and its rays appear weak and pale until it sets).


Ugqbah Ibn Amir said[There were three times at which the Apostle of Allah used
to forbid us to pray or bury our dead. When the sun begins to rise until it has
completely risen, when the sun is at its height at midday till it passes the
meridian, and when the sun draws near to setting till it sets]."


Al-Ikhtiyar states that: i)prayer, ii)the prostration of Quranic recital and iii)the
funeral prayer are not valid at the time when the sun is rising and when it is at its
peak and when it is close to setting except the 'asr prayer which is performed when
it is setting. The reason this is the case with respect to the 'asr is due to the words
of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Whoever offered a rak'ah
of the 'asr prayer before the sun sets, then indeed he has caught it].' Al-Hidayah
also mentions that a severe warning is issued with respect to the 'asr prayer in a
tradition recorded by Imam Malik in which the time close to sunset has been
described as one where "The sun is between the horns of Satan." Hence, offering the
prayer at this time is offensive, though the obligation is lifted. This is not the case at
sunrise or at the time of the sun's zenith, for the prayer is not valid in these times. Imam
Shafi'i maintains that the prayer is not nullified.' Maraky al-Falah states that if one
is engaged in the dawn prayer and the sun rises, the prayer is void.


Bal SN ar rg AN ee gyal pe Cee(٥ Uped Solt Tiny Se par FLAS Al SI a gcd Gory otal ene y


It is however permissible to perform that which becomes obligatory in that time,
though is disliked, such as a funeral prayer that occurred in that time or a
prostration verse that was recited in that particular time, not before it.' Likewise,
it is permissible to offer the 'asr prayer of that day at the time of sunset, even
though it is disliked. However, one is not permitted to offer the 'asr of the previous
day in that particular time.'


Mil plall oaS ٩ SANS ae BIS ٣.٥ op F Mal S AI gad ٠ SS SMI SUSI,


During these three times, it is prohibitively disliked[makruh tahriman]for a person
to perform voluntary prayer, even if there is a reason for it, such as a vowed
prayer, the prayer of tawaf, the prayer of wudu or the prayer of greeting the
mosque(tahiyyah).


Cs dary cee oy ASL all ¢ gb ae Lele Sy


" Abu Dawud ٣١٨٦.

? Bukhari ٥٧٩ and Muslim, ٦٠٨[Al-Ikhtiyar ٦١].

* Al-Hidayah ٨٩.

* This means that if a person recites one of the verses of prostration in the forbidden time, then
it is valid if one performs its prostration in that time. If however, a person recites the verses of
prostration before the forbidden time i.e., in a permissible time and does not observe the
prostration, and instead waits until the forbidden time enters, he is not permitted to observe it.

> Usul al-Figh-Muhammad al-Khudari.


BOOK ١١: PRAYER ١٢٩


When the dawn time arrives, it is disliked to offer voluntary prayer with the
exception of its sunna(meaning when fajr time arrives, one is only to pray the
sunna of the fajr and to offer more is disliked). It is also disliked to offer voluntary
prayer after the dawn prayer.


passlio dey


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer after the 'asr prayer even if the sun has not
yet changed colour. This is due to the hadith that the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[There is no prayer after the prayer of 'asr until the sun
sets, and there is no prayer after the fajr until the sun rises]."


v Allie Jos


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer before the sunset prayer(maghrib). The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Between the two calls is a
prayer if one desires, except the maghrib].'


Beall oy ٦ pe gm hdl oy > ey


It is disliked to perform voluntary prayer at the time the imam emerges to
conduct the Friday sermon until he has completed the prayer. It is disliked on the
basis that to listen to the imam is obligatory and to instruct good whilst the imam
is conducting the sermon is not lawful.' The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said((If you said to your companion 'quiet' and the imam is giving
the sermon, then you have indeed commit an evil act)).' This rule applies even if it
is the sermon of Eid, hajj, marriage, upon the conclusion of completing the
Quran, the lunar eclipse and when seeking rain.'


Some may argue that there was an incident at the time of the Prophet concerning
Sulayk al-Ghatafani which is as follows; Once, while the Messenger was sitting on
the pulpit waiting to begin the sermon, a companion named Sulayk Ibn Hudba al-
Ghatafani entered the masjid in his torn clothing. The Messenger after seeing his
poverty stricken state, ordered him to stand and pray. He did this so that the
other Companions could also observe his condition. The Messenger remained
silent until he had finished his prayer; then after seeing that the other
Companions had noticed him, he encouraged them to contribute to him, which
they did with open hearts. It is clearly evident that this was a special circumstance
and cannot be generally applicable as it was issued only once to this particular
Companion.


" Bukhari ٥٨١.

* Tabarani in his Awsat ٨/١٧٩.
> Maraky al-Falah ١١٤, pt ٣.

* Bukhari ٣٩٤.

٢ Maraky al-Falah ١١٤.


١٣٠ BOOK It: PRAYER


Another point to bear in mind is, the two rak'ahs of entering the mosque are to be
offered immediately upon entering the masjid, prior to sitting down. Though, it is
clear in some of the narrations that Sulayk had sat down upon his arrival. One
narration states that; Sulayk sat down without praying, and the Messenger asked
him if he had performed two rak'ahs? He replied that he had not, so the
Messenger ordered him to stand and perform two rak'ahs. This confirms that he
was ordered to stand up and pray to reveal his condition to the other
Companions. "


Doe hl Godey S ll S gly dtl fy prt ou VI UY ve,


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer at the time of iqama except the sunna of the
dawn prayer; provided one is certain he will not miss the group prayer. The basis
for this is that it is one of the most emphasised sunan and because it yields great
rewards as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The rak'ahs of
fajr are better than the world and what it contains].' He also said[Pray the rak'ahs
of dawn, even if you are trampled on(or driven away)by horses]. If however, a
person will miss the fajr due to the sunna, then he is to join the imam and
relinquish the sunna. It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer before the Eid prayer
even if it is offered at home and likewise it is disliked after Eid prayer in the
mosque because at this time, one is to embrace his brothers.


ao ٩ BSG etl ins


When combining the prayers in Arafah and Muzdalifah, it is disliked to perform
voluntary prayer between them, not even with the sunna of the dhuAr or the sunna
of maghrib, because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Would not
observe voluntary prayers between them].*


Hel ods Go Ley


It is disliked for a person to offer voluntary prayer when there is minimal time left
to perform the obligatory one because one may miss the obligatory prayer from
its designated time.


Cnt VI dadl dey


It is disliked to offer prayer when holding back the need to urinate or defecate.
Whoever performs prayer resisting the urge of such things, then one's
concentration will not be complete and it will preoccupy one's mind and attention
and is therefore disliked.


" Bukhari, ٩٣٠.

* Muslim, ٧٢٥.

٣ Abu Dawud, ١٢٥٣.

'Ibn Shaybah in his Musnad, ٣/٣٨٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٣١


CIEL Jy SUN Jars ey ot ٥٥ plab »٢>y


Prayer is disliked in the presence of food which one desires and craves for. In
addition, anything which distracts one's mind and reduces concentration in
prayer is disliked. A'ishah reported that the Prophet said[No prayer can be(rightly said)when the food is there before the worshipper, or when he is
prompted by the call of nature]."


OBYIL
The Chapter Of Adhan


Linguistically, adhan means to inform. Though according to the Sacred Law, it is
to carry out and notify people about the entrance of the time of prayer with
specific sayings. The adhan became part of Islamic law in the ١* Year of Hijra.
Though, some held it was the second. Before the introduction of adhan, the people
would be informed of the entrance of prayer by calls in the street announcing,
"prayer-prayer." Thereafter, the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))gathered his Companions for consultation about what they could use to inform
the Muslims about the time of prayer. One of the Companions suggested the bell,
but the others including the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))disliked this for they did not want to enact what the Christians observe. And one
of them suggested to burn a fire, but the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))did not want to imitate the fire worshippers and they did not end up
agreeing on anything. Then later that night Abdullah Ibn Zaid had a dream and
during this dream he saw a man teaching him the sayings of adhan. When he
woke, he mentioned what had occurred to the Messenger of God((God bless him
and grant him peace))who became very pleased with this. The Prophet then
ordered him to mention the sayings to Bilal in order that he may utter them
aloud, and this is what Bilal did. From that time onwards, the adhan became an
established sunna for the prescribed prayers.


Ma Y ١s OY >


The Ruling Of The Call To Prayer(Adhan)And The Call To Commence(Igama)cludll a Sy Ra pl Icon gl Lyies clicad gi claf ta prin hy(peal pall ٥٢٨ ye Ais QalSYly GIS Spee
The call to prayer[adhan| and the call to commence[igama]are an emphasized
sunna for the obligatory prayers even if one offers the prayer alone, or whether
one is performing the current prayer or making up a missed prayer or whether
one is a traveller or resident. In addition, it is disliked for women to call adhan or
igama. Abu Hanifa said that if people of a city offer the congregational prayer
without the adhan being called for the prayer, then they have acted contrary to


" Muslim ٦٦٠.


١٣٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


the sunna of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)and have sinned. It
is also maintained by Imam Muhammad that the adhan is wajib and that if the
residents of a land agree to give it up we would fight them. And the common
ground between these two rulings is that an emphasised sunna acts like a wajtb
with respect to the sin one receives for its omission." The Prophet(God bless him
and grant him peace)said[And one of you should pronounce the adhan for
prayer when its time is due].'


Moreover, it is not sunna to call the adhan for the funeral prayer, Eid prayer,
solar eclipse prayer, rain prayer, tarawth or the rawatib sunan, and neither is it
sunna for the witr prayer even though it is wajib to perform."


With respect to woman calling the adhan and iqama, it has been related from Ibn
Umar(God be pleased with him)that it is disliked for women to call the adhan or
igama, and there is no room for opinion in this judgement. Thus, he surely heard
this from the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)and he made clear,
that a woman's situation is based on her being discreet and that their raised voices
is a temptation and that the iqama is predominantly made with a raised voice.


BBY, ObYI bl
The Sayings Of The Adhan And Igama
MNS ee Vy bl BS ٠٢١ AS chy es lasl gd Sy


The person announcing the adhan is to recite 'Allahu akbar' four times at the start
and twice at the end, and likewise he is to recite the remainder of the sayings
twice. There is no repetition[éarji]in the two shahada's, which is to pronounce
the shahada's twice in a silent tone and then call them aloud for Bilal((God be
pleased with him))did not observe this practice.' However, the Maliki and Shafi'i
view is that it is sunna to utter the two shahada's in a low tone that is heard by the
people before calling them aloud.


ale EGY,
The iqama is like the adhan with respect to its words.

oe Baal li AE UY OG dary OS ٢ ٩ gl oe ٢ Tal enall CH de bs
During the adhan for the dawn prayer after the caller recites 'come to success,' he is
to add the words 'prayer is better than sleep' twice. And after uttering 'come to success'
in the iqama, he is to add the words 'he prayer is commencing, the prayer is


commencing.' This is what the angel descending from the sky did, and this is well
known.


" Al-Ikhtiyar ٦٤.

? Bukhari ٦٢٨.

* Kitab al-Fiqh 'Ala Madhahib al-Arba'a vol.١, ٢٨٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ١١٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٣٣


Recommended Actions For The Caller
EW bOI aT phe OLy WL ٥٥٨ Vo UY Gp ٢ OY G Seen


It is recommended for the caller to pronounce the adhan without haste by taking a
short pause between every two words, and to utter the igama speedily. It is not
permitted to call the adhan in Persian or any other language except Arabic, even
if it is known and evident that it is the adhan.


Teall SU ly RIL UL Ws S٥٥ OS Of ny


It is recommended that the caller be righteous since he is like a trustee of the


religion, and that he have knowledge in the sunan of adhan, and knowledge of the
prayer times.


BWaadL bes ager y Ug Obs cl Gene]eg by LS OS OI VAM ene ysy bey
CWE IjLey


It is recommended that the caller be in a state of ablution and that he face the
direction of prayer except if he is riding. It is recommended that he place his
fingers in his ears and turn his head(not the chest or feet)to the right when
saying 'come to prayer' and to the left when saying 'ome to success.' This is what the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))ordered Bilal to do.


In addition, it is recommended to revolve(or turn in a circular fashion)within the


minaret as one is calling the adhan so people in every direction can hear the
adhan.


Peal)O pS pat Le pas Gy OSI es frais y
wll <٥ oll lel sw


It is recommended to allocate a sufficient amount of time between the adhan and


igama that allows the regular people to attend the congregation, taking into
consideration the recommended time to pray in. The Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said to Bilal[Make room between the adhan and iqama so
that the one making ablution finishes his need and the one eating finishes his
meal]."


Bead ٢ UY dar)iS by ol pbs SW shad SUI OW tel Fad ER GS all by
vas b aI


" At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Prayer, ١٩٥,١٤٣.


١٣٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


With regards to the sunset prayer(magfrid), the caller is to separate between the
adhan and igama the amount of time it takes to recite three short verses or the
time it takes to walk three steps and he is to repeat some of the sayings after the
adhan, such as prayer, prayer, O worshippers,' or 'rise to prayer.'


Leted ٠ Se
That Which Is Disliked In The Adhan And Igama
alah y ¢ Dtoekl bil yo Cred o Soy


It is disliked to melodise the adhan, i.e. to sing the call in a way that changes the
words or to commit mistakes in the expressions. It is disliked for the caller to be
in a state of minor impurity when announcing the adhan and igama. Though if one
does so, it is valid.


JEU ٩٦ Gold g cal aly COI Sry Oye ye fi Y poy Cott ality


It is disliked if the announcer of adhan is, i)in a state of major ritual impurity(janaba), ii)a boy who has not yet acquired intellect, iii)insane or under the
influence of alcohol, iv)a female or v)an immoral person. And it is disliked for
adhan to be called whilst sitting.


AVY! ٥٤٩ Gale]any UBY! Gy OBI IE G ISI,


It is disliked for the caller to speak during the adhan and the igama even if it was
for returning salam. And if he does so during the adhan, it is recommended to
repeat it, though not the igama.


pall gaetl ey ppb ol,


It is disliked to call adhan and iqama for the noon prayer(dhuhr)on Friday in the
city. This means, people in the city who have missed the Friday assembly prayer
with the imam, are not to call the adhan and iqama for the dhuhr prayer,
regardless if one has missed the prayer due to a reason or not and regardless if
one is performing the prayer in a group or not. Also, this dislike is specifically
targeted at city locations where the Friday prayer is held, because the village
dwellers who live outside the city are not required to attend the Friday prayer
according to the Hanafi Madhhab which means it is not disliked for these people
to call adhan and iqama in their area and pray dhuhr, because for them it is the
prescribed prayer of that time.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٣٥
it a UBYL, ott
Calling The Adhan And Igama For Missed Prayers
et eee)Ode ٢٩


The one who misses a prayer is to announce the adhan and the igama prior to the
makeup of that prayer, as the Prophet ordered Bilal to do when he and the group
missed the fajr prayer after resting on the way back from Khaybar."


Lad le ٢٨١)Sl yd GORY O٩٢ GUYS ٥٠ Sy cil yl IgV IiSy


Equally, when one has missed a number of prayers, he is to call the adhan for the
first and make the iqama. However, after calling the adhan and iqama for the first
of the missed prayers, it is disliked if a person abandons the iqama in the
remainder of the prayers, though not the adhan, this is provided that the missed
prayers are being performed in the same sitting. Meaning, if one called adhan and
iqama in the first prayer, and then did not call adhan for the rest of the prayers, it
is approved, but if one abandoned the iqama for the rest of the prayers, it is
disliked. Though to conform fully, one should call the adhan and iqama for all of
the prayers as the Prophet performed. When the non-believers kept the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))engaged in the battle of Khandak(Trench)and he missed four prayers as a result, namely the dhuhr, 'asr, maghrib, and 'isha.
He prayed them in order and ordered Bilal(God be pleased with them)to make
adhan and iqama for every prayer."


REST Ctl annnay Le
What The Listener Of The Adhan Should Sa
Si tee Cail Lt)hoy py cite)SW lad G fim y dee Sy eed ed pl eae tL
eal oe ye Beall: ٠٥ ٥hI
If one hears the adhan being announced according to the sunna, in that there are
no mistakes or singing etc, he is to cease his actions and is to utter the same words
as the caller, though when he hears the words, 'come to prayer' and 'come to success,'
he is to say, 'there is no power or strength except with Allah.' And in the adhan at dawn,


after the caller says, 'prayer is better than sleep,' one is to say, you have spoken the truth
and have done good' or 'whatever Allah wills.'


eins Tad y Te Ane dpe OT ESL Say TALI ٥ ye aN odin pag J ydcd De ll Lea gt


" Muwattah of Malik ١/١٤.
? At-Tirmidhi ١٧٩, an-Nasai ٦٦).


١٣٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


Upon this, one is to supplicate and say, "O Allah, Lord of this comprehensive
invitation and enduring prayer, grant Muhammad a place near to You, an
excellence and exalted degree and bestow on him the praiseworthy station that
You have promised him."


Leis shy aall by ٢ Ob
Conditions Of The Prayer And Its Pillars
abe Seal ds ot SL


That Which Is Required For The Validity Of Prayer
Las pp poy dae oye Baal dma LY
In order for prayer to be valid, the following twenty-seven conditions must be satisfied:
ctl Teall and ye oo AE pre Ab prs oe WIL y gy DANS hg y ITI op ٥ iL gla!
Teel de tatty eS ly


Purification from the state of minor and major impurity. In addition, purity of
one's body, clothes, and place of prayer from filth which is not excusable is a
necessary condition. It has been described earlier that the amount less than that
of a dirham is excused for heavy filth; and for light filth, it is less than one quarter
of the clothes; and the area where the feet, hands, knees and forehead are placed
must also be pure, for if there is filth, the prayer is not valid. This is most correct
opinion as held by Abu Hanifa.


ahd fils ao ٢ le bi na Vy ip yall rey


Clothing one's nakedness and concealing the nakedness from view on all sides is
conditional for the validity of prayer, and it is of no harm if one's nakedness can
be seen by himself or others from the opening of the neck of the clothes or from


below.
cell fe Kee gly Upper dabell iy ne Go| asp ale SUG dill JL!


It is conditional to face the direction of prayer[gibla]. Accordingly, the one living
in Makkah who can see the ka'bah is required to face it directly. Whereas the one
who cannot see the ka'bah must face its direction(i.e. its location)even if he is in
Makkah, and this is the most correct view. With respect to the diagram below, the
person seen to the far right is legally regarded as facing the qibla, while the person
in the middle is truly facing it.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٣٧


é ٤





Maraky al-Falah ١٢٤





Wea yp dL Say pit ee


The arrival of the time of prayer is conditional for the validity of prayer and one
must be certain its time has arrived; consequently, if one prays and is not certain


if the time of prayer has arrived, the prayer is null and void even if the prayer
time had arrived."


ily


-


To form an intention is conditional. This consists of having a firm resolve in one's
mind in order to distinguish one act of worship from another.


Selb de poly


To say the opening Allahu akbar without separating it from one's intention is
conditional for the prayer to be correct. Note: a person may make his intention at
the opening Allahu akbar; or one may make his intention and then say the


opening Allahu akbar without a long gap between them. Both are valid according
to the Hanafi Madhhab.


ESM olasl Jo LU ie, adh oy
The second part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must utter the opening Allahu akbar while standing before bending for the bow[ruku. It is stated in the book al-Burhan: If a person attends the prayer and finds
the imam bowing and this person first bends his back and then offers the takbir, if
he was closer to standing; then his entry into the prayer is valid.
dns pull oF al pol ete s


The third part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must not delay the intention from the opening Allahu akbar.


Teel fo aa pe tere dey tl Gly


" Maraky alFalah ١٢٥.


١٣٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


The fourth part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must utter the opening Allahu akbar to the degree that he can hear himself
according to the correct view.


The fifth part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; the
follower must intend being linked with his imam.


we Al nny
The sixth part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must specify the obligatory prayer being offered. This means, if one wishes to
pray an obligatory prayer, such as the dhuAr or 'asr prayer, then he must intend
that particular obligatory prayer, such as intending to pray the dhuAr for example.
This applies even if the prayer is current or a missed prayer. It is not sufficient to
intend an obligatory prayer without specifying which one. Additionally, this
specification is conditional at the commencement, such that if a person intends a
specific obligatory prayer and then commences it and thereafter forgets and


completes the prayer under the assumption that it is a voluntary one, then it
counts as the obligatory prayer and he is thereby relieved of that obligation.


all ws


The seventh part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is: one
must specifically intend which wajib prayer he is praying, such as the witr prayer,
the rak'ahs of tawaf and a voluntary prayer that was ruined in the past.


JS SSAA,


It is not a condition to specify the intention for voluntary prayer even if it is the
sunna of the dawn prayer.


Sail Se yd lll,
It is conditional and one of the pillars to stand in all the obli
though not for voluntary prayer. gatory prayers,


ve Al PS IU Sy tel Dy


It is obligatory to recite at least one verse of Quran in two rak'ahs of the
obligatory prayer, as held by Abu Hanifa, though Imams Muhammad and Abu
Yusuf held that the minimum is three verses. Allah said[Read of the Quran, as
much as may be easy for you].' This verse commands that some portion of the
Quran be recited during the prayer. It does not confine the obligation to surah al-
Fatiha, but rather indicates that any portion of the Quran can be recited to meet
the obligation. Abu Yusuf and Muhammad said that to memorise the bare


" Maraky al-Falah ١٢٨.
? Muzzammil ٢٠


BOOK ١١: PRAYER ١٣٩


minimum(of what is required for prayer)is individually obligatory(fard 'ain| and the
memorisation of the Fatiha and a surah is wajib upon all Muslims and the
memorisation of the entire Quran is a communal obligation{fard kifaya]."


Poly Jest JS y


It is obligatory to recite Quran in all the rak'ahs of voluntary prayer and in all the
rak'ahs of the witr prayer.


Beall dma)ON A oe og dy


There are no specific verses in the Quran that one must recite in order for the
prayer to be valid. One may therefore recite any verse from the Quran, and the


prayer is valid. Though it has previously been stated that the Fatiha is wajib to
recite.


cman pete b LEY,


The person following the imam in prayer must not recite Quran; rather he must
listen and remain silent whether the imam is reading aloud or silently. Allah said((When the Quran is read, listen to it with attention and remain silent)).? The
Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[The imams recitation is
sufficient for you,(whether he is reciting)aloud or silently].* Also, Abu Hanifa
and his companions as well as Imam Malik and Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal agreed
that the prayer is valid for a follower who does not recite anything behind the
imam. Also, the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[Whoever has
an imam, the recitation of the imam is recitation for the(follower)].'


Imam Muhammad said in a hadith: Isra'il informed us, Musa Ibn Abi A'ishah
narrated to me from Abdullah Ibn Shadda Ibn Had who said, The Messenger of
Allah led the 'asr prayer and a man recited behind him, so the man next to him
nudged him. When he had prayed he said, "Why did you nudge me?" He replied,
"The Messenger of Allah was leading you, so I loathe that you should recite
behind him." Hearing this, the Prophet said, "Whoever prays with an imam, then
the imams recitation suffices for him."° Another narration states: Malik informed
us: Nafi' narrated to us from Ibn Umar that when asked, "Should anyone read
with the imam?" He would say, "When one of you prays with the imam, the
recitation of the imam is sufficient for him," and Ibn Umar never used to read
with the imam.°


le ٠ S١٥ oy


" Maraky al-Falah ١٢٩.

? Al-A'raf ٢٠٤

* Darqutani in his Sunan ١/٣٣١.
'Ibn Majah ٨٥٠.

٥ Muwattah Imam Muhammad ١٢٥.
® Muwattah Imam Muhammad ١١٢.


١٤٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


And if the follower behind the imam does recite Quran, whether it is the Fatiha
or another surah, it is prohibitively disliked because there is prohibition on the
matter. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[No-one from
you should read anything from the Quran, if it were being recited aloud]." And
the verse from the Quran and hadith that have passed previously are sufficient
proof.


ager Abe Kindy damm AE Le fo > prely § ٩٥ My


It is obligatory to prostrate on something which the forehead can completely
stabilise; prostration is not permitted on things such as snow, hay, or rice in which
the head cannot stabilise or settle.


andy[t pb d}٤٩ db sl iS Je ٥


Prostration is permitted on the palm of the hand of the one praying and on the
edge of his clothes provided the place where the hand or clothes are placed is
pure. Note: if one performs prostration on the edge of his clothes or palm of his
hand without a reason, it is disliked. This dislike also applies to one who performs
prostration on the wrapping of his turban without a reason. If however, the
wrapping of the turban is completely on the scalp[without any part it touching the
forehead| and one prostrates on the wrapping only, then it is not valid.'


UgAh phe ope WY fo sad Yl maar Vy agers dail op he ly bye y dey


Prostration must be performed with the rigid part of the nose and forehead and it
is not permissible to restrict the prostration to the nose only, unless there is a
reason with respect to the forehead, such as an injury upon it. This is the view of
the two companions of Abu Hanifa.


٥F ob glad ead de at by G١٣ taal ye ASL ed Ad ys ٦ opel fe pla y| pe
wee frase ٤ Le[gd dare dm J Vio el


In addition to the conditions that validate prostration is, one must not raise the
level of prostration higher than the level of the feet by more than half an arm's
length; and if one increases over half a arms length, then the prostration is invalid
unless there is a jam(crowd)in which case one may prostrate on the back of
someone who is offering the same prayer.


Va ٢a fe a pred Se nbn NI rll oy eet etsy ermal boeS My tll oss
pee


" Darqutani ١/٣٢٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ١٣١.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٤١





Also from the conditions that validate prostration is: one must place the hands
and knees on the ground according to the most correct view. Note, the author
clarified this point saying that the minimum requirement for the validity of
prostration is the placement of one hand and one of the knees on the ground.

Though this is not the perfect manner of how it is performed. Additionally, part
of the toes of the feet must be placed on the ground during prostration, and it is
not sufficient to place the top part of the foot on the ground during prostration.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[I have been ordered to
prostrate on seven bones, i.e. on the forehead and the Prophet pointed towards his
nose, hands, knees and the toes of both feet]."


dy eg ٩٥ Melis


Bowing must precede prostration. This is conditional for the validity of prayer
just like recitation is to precede bowing.


TeV fe > alll oF Mo pret oe Gb ds


It is conditional to rise from prostration to a position close to sitting according to
the correct view from Abu Hanifa who held, that one who is near or close to the
position of sitting is regarded as sitting.


pt So yall


To return and perform the second prostration is obligatory. The second


prostration is obligatory like the first prostration according to scholars of AAl as-
Sunna wal-Jama'a.


Spe ٥ V٣ gaily


It is obligatory to perform the last sitting for the time equivalent to reading the
tashahhud according to the consensus of the scholars due to the hadith of Ibn
Mas'ud when he taught the tashahhud to others saying[If you said this |i.e. the
tashahhud]or performed this, then you have completed prayer, if you desire to
rise, then rise and if you desire to remain sitting, then sit].°


ISM eo ely


To delay the last sitting until one has completed all the pillars of prayer is
conditional for the prayer's validity. Consider the following: if the one praying
recites the last tashahhud and then remembers the omission of a prostration in
one of the rak'ahs, then he is to perform it and must then repeat the last sitting
again because the prostration which was neglected is an original pillar of prayer.





" Maraky alFalah ١٣١.
? Bukhari ٨١٢.


٣ Abu Dawud ٩٦٥.


١٤٢ BOOK II: PRAYER
Uaar—e lejlal,


The pillars must be performed while one is conscious. This is conditional for the
validity of prayer.


pled olizely ٢ pM Ladd ys joes amy fe ٢d ٩ pill Sad oo gb Ley SLI LES Hany
٩ am, SEY p>


In order for the prayer to be valid, it is conditional to have full knowledge of the
procedure of prayer and all its obligatory characteristics, a knowledge which
allows a person to differentiate these characteristics from the sunna
characteristics. One must also have conviction that the prayer being offered is
obligatory, so that he does not perform a voluntary prayer instead of an
obligatory one; and so that he does not believe that the total of four rak'ahs at
dawn are all obligatory, or that the three rak'ahs at maghrib followed by the two
sunna making five in total are all obligatory. The reason this is essential is
because a voluntary prayer can be achieved with an obligatory intention, but not
vice versa.


Beall Os I
The Pillars Of Prayer "
dey)ot Sal ٢٢ OIS Vy
From the conditions mentioned above, four are regarded as pillars; they are:
Ags jade pe > add! ١٥٩ ogres ٦٩٥ ys del ally Lal
١- Standing in prayer, ٢- Recitation of Quran, ٣- Bowing[ruku]and ٤- Prostration[sujud]. It has been said that the last sitting remaining the time equi
reciting the tashahhud is also a pillar of prayer. equivalent to





" Note: It is important to understand the difference between conditions[shart]and pillars[rukun]. There are similarities and differences between the two. The difference oes th

two is that a pillar element is always part of the act, while the condition is external t
For example: bowing is a pillar of prayer and is part of it, while ablution is a condition an
is external to it. Another example is the one performing hajj; for one must first satisfy th

condition of being in the state of ihram before he can proceed to one of its pillars ack e
the standing at Arafah. , a


sali bs!
Conditions Of Prayer
acowe pl yl b pt ono y Ug le ONS Le gay Dall Gey SN dona bo pte bal Gly


The remainder are conditions, some of which validate the entrance into prayer,
and these are observed prior to prayer, such as purity from filth, covering one's
nakedness, facing qibla, the arrival of the time of prayer, intention and the
opening takbir, while other conditions validate the continuance of the prayer,
such as recitation of Quran whilst standing, to delay prostration until one has
performed the bowing and to be awake and conscious. Therefore, there are four pillars
of prayer, and anything besides this is either wajib, sunna or conditional.


al by Ses py ٥٣
Branches Associated With The Conditions Of Prayer
sbi b » jlart
That Which Is Associated With The Condition Of Purity
re Jeg lb Le agen yc dd fe all ٥ ٩٧


Prayer is permitted upon libd(which is anything that is thick and possible to be
split into two with its length and breadth remaining, such as a wooden board or
plank)with the upper part being pure while the part underneath is the filthy side."


wpe pb IS Nil inns allay plb OS Jey


Prayer is also permitted on a clean cloth(or an item of clothing)with the upper
part being the clean side while the inside layer(or lining)is the filthy side; this is
provided that the inside layer is not stitched to the outer layer. An example
includes a coat or something similar which normally has an inside lining that is
connected to the outer layer via slight stitching on the edges, though is not
completely stitched together. This being the case, if it is placed on the ground and
prayed upon, the upper part being the clean side while the inside layer is the
unclean side, then it is valid because it is like two items on top of each other.
However, if they completely stitched together, then it is deemed as one item and
therefore invalid.


cel fe eS pe etl G bh FZ oly plb Gb Joy


Prayer is also permitted on the clean side of a mat, clothes or carpet even if the
filthy side moves when the clean side does; and this is the most correct opinion.


" Nur al-Idah ٨٤.


١٤٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


٣٩٨ Y SF oly Cee Sie oS pe pr pe dy eed, Jo lt al, lal cole Gb ol ns ys
If one of the sides of a person's turban is struck with filth during prayer,
thereupon he throws the filthy part of the turban on the ground while the pure
section remains on his head; the prayer is deemed valid provided the filthy part
does not move when the clean side moves, although if it does, the prayer is
invalid.

ale sole| Vy gar fray dull bn le iby


One who has no means by which to remove the filth from his clothes, is permitted
to pray with that filth, and no repetition of the prayer is required for the reason
that Allah Almighty does not burden the individual except what is within his
ability. Furthermore, it is better to pray in filthy clothes as opposed to praying
naked.


By pl po b Glan
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Covering One's Nakedness
ce Y pal dass UNL yy cdr y ob Leb SH Late Mp m Sy cry Ral BU fe GLPY,


wea ٧ Sil ٤b Oo yey ble Se

Likewise, if one finds nothing to cover his nakedness, not even silk, grass or mud
and therefore he prays naked, no repetition of the prayer is required. Though if
one finds silk, he is required to use it under these circumstances, because the
requirement of covering one's nakedness is stronger than the prevention of
wearing it in this situation. And if one finds something to cover his nakedness,
and one fourth of it is clean, whilst three quarters are not, prayer is not permitted
naked, and the clothes must be used." If however, less than a quarter is clean, then
one has the option of using it or performing the prayer naked.


UL Oe pol JS wos Gate,


Prayer in clothes that are completely filthy is more preferable than praying naked.
Py fal poss Slory dy yl ae Aub toy Sy


If a person finds anything with which he can cover part of his nakedness, then it is
necessary to use it and cover the genitals and anus if that is all one has enough
for.


LM J ٥s pill pee JS FAY py Lop





" Note: even if clothes belong to someone else are found, though their owner gave permission
for their use, they must be used. If on the other hand, the owner did not give consent, then
legally they are not permitted to be taken and prayed with. However, should one do so, the
prayer is valid, but the person has committed a sin.[Nur al-Idah ٨٥].


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٤٥


If a person only has enough to cover one of these parts, some scholars maintain
that he is to cover the anus, because it is obscene in the situation of bowing and
prostration, whereas other scholars held, he must cover the genitals because he is
facing the qibla with the frontal area.


eee oprtly ٦٩٥ SL oh eleVE GU Leo Ob Aa yo abe y lobe LVL Sle gil ie ais


It is recommended that the prayer of a naked person be offered whilst seated by
way of indication(nodding)and stretching the legs out towards the qibla in an
effort to cover oneself. If however, one prays standing indicating with his head(ie. nodding)or he opts to bow and prostrate normally, then both are valid,
though the first option of praying seated is best.


leery Vici ye stow amy ce rpadly aS ade wy ٥٩ AS I cgay ٨ all le be Nay sey
Lert y nad y


The private area of a man is that which is between his naval to the end of the
knees. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The private area[awrah]of a male is the area between the naval to the knees]." The private area of
a slave includes more than that of a man, namely(the addition of)her stomach
and back, and for the free woman — her whole body is a private area except her
face, hands and feet; meaning the palms and back of the hands and the top of the
feet and underneath is permitted to uncover.


Beall dvs pier by pl Lael oo pee wy ats


If one quarter of any limb from the private area[azerah]is exposed, it prevents the
validity of prayer. Note: the knees are part of the thighs and the ankle of a woman
is part of her shins. The woman's ear is regarded as separate from her head and so
are her breasts. Likewise, a man's penis is deemed a limb as well as his scrotum;
all are regarded as individual limbs. The area between the navel and the pubic
bone is also one limb. For example: if one quarter of a person's thigh is exposed,
then prayer is not correct because the thigh is a limb from the private area.


WEY y ٦ ae ES Lac ol ay ply bai Le Ube OS yy yl op elael Je GES GS sy


If there are a few separate portions exposed in various places of the private area
and the sum total of these exposed places equals one quarter of the smallest limb
which is uncovered, prayer is deemed invalid. For example: if part of the thigh,
scrotum and lower stomach area each uncovered a small portion and the total of
this amounts to one quarter of the smallest of these parts, in this case the scrotum,


then prayer is not valid. If it does not equal one quarter, then the prayer remains
sound.


" Al-Baihaqi, ١/٢٢٢ / Al-Zayla'i, ١/١٢٣.


١٤٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


ULM Sheed b ty sles L
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Facing The Qibla
sacl ٩ ٥ ٥ dg ached Lyte GE gl ale ٥٦ Jy pl ye jane ol op LL JL ٦ pee ope


Whoever is unable to face the direction of prayer(gibla]due to illness or is unable
to dismount from his animal due to old age or other factors, or because he fears
an enemy, or a predatory animal, then the direction of prayer for him is the
direction he is able to face and which is safe for him.


See fj athade ole fy Ward J ae dole Vy is FMS Vy pe ote SK dy Ua ale ett oy


٢٩ awl

If one does not know the direction of prayer and there is no one to inform him
about it, nor is there a prayer niche[mihrab], then one must investigate using
personal reasoning and other evidences. If he later learns that he was incorrect, he
is not required to repeat the prayer. Amir b. Rabia(God be pleased with him)stated that(We were in the company of Allah's Messenger in a journey. The sky
became cloudy and it became difficult for us to determine the direction of prayer.
As we finished the prayer, we came to know the direction of prayer. When the sun
rose, we mentioned it to the Holy Prophet upon which Allah revealed(Where so
ever you turn, there is Allah's countenance)|." Although if one realises his error
during the prayer, he must turn to the correct direction and continue the prayer.
Abdullah Ibn Umar(God be pleased with him)reported[While the people were
offering the dawn prayer at Quba someone came to them and said: It has been
revealed to the Prophet tonight, and he has been ordered to offer prayer facing
the ka'bah. So turn your faces to the ka'bah. The people that were facing Sham{Jerusalem}turned their faces towards the ka'bah];' and the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))did not order them to repeat prayer.

Wel cool phe d JS Ad Uys ybel ple Oly. cme shel al atti ay la Fe SOL
If a person begins his prayer with no investigation and after the completion of
prayer discovers that he was correct, the prayer is valid, and if he finds out during
the prayer that he is facing the correct direction, the prayer is nullified, because
the person began the prayer with no investigation, and because the situation has
been strengthened with this confirmation received while praying, and one cannot
continue something in a strong mode after its weak commencement. Imam
Muhammad and Imam Zufar held that this person had left out the compulsory
action prior to prayer, that being the investigation, or personal reasoning. The
same applies to one who begins the prayer with no investigation and does not
discover at all whether he faced the correct direction. His prayer is nullified
because he omitted the investigation. Hence, if one learns in the prayer or does
not find out at all, then both encounter the same ruling if they commence the
prayer with no investigation.


" Quran: ٢-١١٥. Ibn Majah ١٠٢٠.
? Bukhari ٤٠٣


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٤٧





pst peel Se Myler y ler ٦ ٥ oF ols


In a group prayer, if many people use personal reasoning investigating the
direction of prayer due to total darkness and it results in many people facing
different directions because they are unaware of their imam's situation with
respect to what direction he is facing, then their prayer is valid. If however
someone steps in front of the imam, then his prayer is void.


all oely ٣
The Wajib Elements Of Prayer'
ee Ae le ts
There are eighteen practices necessary in prayer
aZ Lal el ٥


Recitation of the Fatiha is wajib due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))[Whoever does not recite surah al-Fatiha in his prayer, his
salat is invalid].? This hadith indicates that the prayer is not perfect without it, not
that the prayer is invalid, because the hadith is a solitary hadith[ahad]. And
solitary transmission does not abrogate the saying of Allah[Read of the Quran as
much as may be easy for you].? Abu Hanifa holds that the minimum recitation
that is deemed valid in prayer is one verse whereas the two jurists held that it is
three short verses or one long verse.'


sill pe negate nb Oa GOL linge pes
In(any)two rak'ahs of an obligatory prayer, it is wajib to add to the Fatiha, a


surah or three verses of Quran. Note: this is the Hanafi position, that if one recites
a surah with the Fatiha in any two rak'ahs, the prayer is correct. Though in saying


" Lexically, the term wajib may be given several names, one of which is lazim(necessary).
Legally, in the Hanafi school: it is that which is established with a proof that is subject to
resemblance. This resemblance can occur in the proof itself, such as implying two meanings or
more or it can be in the proofs establishment, such as being a solitary[ata]hadith on the
condition that it implies only one meaning. As for what is established with a definitively
established text[gat'i], such as the Quran or hadith Muttawatir, that is not speculative, then it is
deemed obligatory. Moreover, the ruling upon the wajib is as follows: intentionally leaving a
wajib element is deserving of punishment, while its performance is rewarded. The one who
rejects it is not deemed a disbeliever. If a person absentmindedly omits a wajib act in prayer, it
does not nullify the prayer provided he observes the prostrations of forgetfulness. Moreover, the
wajib acts were introduced in order to perfect the obligatory acts and that the sunan were
introduced in order to perfect the wajib acts and that the adab were introduced in order to
perfect the sunan.[Maraky al-Falah ١٤١].

? Bukhari ٧٥٦.

* Muzzammil ٢٠.[Maraky al-Falah ١٤١).

* Al-Hidayah.


١٤٨ BOOK HI: PRAYER


this, it is also wajib to fix the recitation of the surah(with the Fatiha)in the first
two rak'ahs as the Prophet did.


edly ps OLS)ar Ss


Additionally, it is wajib to recite a surah with the Fatiha in all the rak'ahs of the
witr and voluntary prayers.


dV Sow ey


The recitation of a surah or three verses is to be fixed in the first two rak'ahs of all
obligatory prayers, due to the Prophet's diligence in observing this((God bless
him and grant him peace)).


By gett be WI tty


It is wayib to recite the Fatiha before the surah. And if one begins to read the
surah first and then remembers the order, he must repeat the Fatiha and then
read the surah and thereafter prostrate due to forgetfulness. "


opr J qe BY Ay


It is wajtb to place both the nose and forehead on the ground in prostration. It is
not lawful to limit the prostration with the nose only unless one has a reason to do
so.

La J SUSY AG aS)IS J UN Be SL OLY s


In every rak'ah, it is wayib to perform the second prostration before switching to
another action of the prayer, namely, the standing for the next rak'ah. If on the
other hand, one neglects the etiquette of the two prostrations by omitting one of
them from a rak'ah and instead stands up for another rak'ah, it is permissible and
does not invalidate prayer provided the person performs the prostration he
neglected."


OS Nig oka Vy


It is necessary to remain motionless for a moment in all the pillars of prayer, i.e.
to be in a state of serenity and calmness in each pillar of prayer before moving
into the next position. This serenity is achieved by allowing one's limbs to come
to rest and their joints at ease. It is reported that the Prophet entered the mosque
during which a man entered and performed his prayers, then he came to the
Prophet and gave salam to him, upon which the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))returned the salam and said[Return and pray, for you did not
pray]. The man returned and observed prayer as he prayed before, thereafter, he
came to the Prophet and gave salam upon which the Prophet returned the salam
and said[Return and pray, for you did not pray], and this occurred three times.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٤٢.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٤٢.


BOOK I: PRAYER ١٤٩





The man then said, "By the One who sent you with the truth, I do not know
better than this, so teach me." The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[If you arise to pray, make takbir, then recite what you know from the Quran,
then bow and be at ease(for a moment)in your bowing, then rise until you are
standing upright, then prostrate until you are at ease(serene)in prostration, then
rise and be still(and serene)in your sitting, and perform this in all your prayers].


LEW DIN J aie ٥٦ meme Jad Ag tl inl Fy Jy Wo atlly


The first sitting and the recitation of the tashahhud in it, is wajib; and this is the
correct view. It is also wajib to recite the tashahhud in the last sitting.


sgt das ١٥ eo BIN I play


It is wajib to rise to the third rak'ah without any delay after reciting the
tashahhud. If a person forgetfully remains sitting after the tashahhud the amount
of time it takes to perform a pillar, he becomes liable to offer prostrations of
forgetfulness for delaying the compulsory standing of the third rak'ah.


Sle ٠٩٢ p AI aly


It is wayib to utter the word 'salam' at the end of prayer, though not the words
'upon you' for the reason that the intended thing, which is the exit of prayer, is
achieved when one says, 'salam.'


AN ApS y ٥ lossy


The supplication of the witr and the additional takbirs of both Eid al-Fitr and Eid
al-Adha are wajib. The view that the supplication of witr is wajib is the view held
by Abu Hanifa. Regarding the additional takbirs of Eid, each takbir is deemed
wajib, such that if it is omitted would require the prostrations of forgetfulness.


dale cpt Ye JS AY ٤S(Ld)y


It is wajib to specify the words 'Allahu akbar' for the start of all prayers, not only
for the prayers of Eid. Abu Bakr Ibn Abd al-Rahman reported that Abu Hurairah


would utter the takbir in every prayer, whether it was obligatory or non-
obligatory.'

palit d ES MS y
In the second rak'ah of both the Eid prayers, it is wajib to say, Allahu akbar' for
the bowing(ruku'). Note: in the second rak'ah of the Eid prayer, the additional
takbirs of Eid are offered after the recitation of Quran, after which it is wajib to
say, 'Allahu akbar' for the bowing. Therefore, the additional takbirs and the


takbir of the bowing are attached. This is contrary to the first rak'ah, because in
the first rak'ah, the additional takbirs come before the recitation of Quran.


" At-Tirmidhi[Maraky al-Falah ١٤٣}.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٤٤.
٣ Abu Dawud ٨٣٥.


١٥٠ BOOK I: PRAYER


hee DF sSly cost Ally qteally Headly Lad gly pelea Joly pralil a PLY gs


It is waytb to recite Quran aloud in the dawn prayer as well as in the first two
rak'ahs of the maghrib and 'isha prayer even if they are missed prayers and are
being made up. One is also required to recite loudly for the Friday prayer, the Eid
prayer, the tarawih prayers and the witr prayer in Ramadan. Note: audible
recitation is that which is heard by others.


Sb icra tt LS at(٢ pe)٢ edly sett Jy relia Islan by nantly gb GLY


It is wajid to recite Quran silently to the extent that the one can hear himself in all
the rak'ahs of the dhuhr and 'asr prayer, in the third rak'ah of the maghrib prayer,
in the third and fourth rak'ah of the 'isha prayer and in all the rak'ahs of
voluntary prayer offered in the daytime. The one performing an obligatory prayer
alone(such as the fajr or maghrib)has an option between reciting Quran aloud or


silently." Likewise, the one offering voluntary prayer at night also has an option,
whether he wishes to recite audibly or silently.


er ٢ ew PW GULF Le QU Ga


If one omits the recitation of a surah in the first two rak'ahs of the 'isha prayer,
then he is to repeat it aloud in the last two rak'ahs with the Fatiha aloud as well;
and this is the most correct view. In the event of this situation occurring, one is to


advance the Fatiha, then the surah, though some held that one should advance
the surah first."


If the Fatiha is not recited in the first two rak'ahs, one is not to repeat it in the last


two rak'ahs, i.e. one is not to recite the Fatiha twice in the third rak'ah and twice
in the fourth.


" The reason he has an option is because he is an imam for himself and because there is no one
behind him who can listen to his recitation. He may therefore recite audibly or silently. Al-
Karkhi(God bless him)held that he is not to raise his voice to the extent that the imam does,
because there is no one behind him who is listening. However, some jurists maintain that to
make his prayer similar to the congregation is of greater benefit.(Al-Hidayah ١٢٦).

* Maraky al-Falah ١٤٤.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥١


Wed


The Sunan Of Prayer


Sunna in literal terms means way or path. Technically, it means the path taken in
religion without obligation to do so. Another definition maintains that it is what is
requested by the Lawgiver without a decisive command or it is that which was
performed by the Prophet in a manner he was diligent upon and did not leave
except for a reason. Neglecting a sunna in prayer, even if it is deliberate, does not
invalidate prayer and prostrations of forgetfulness are not required. However, if
one intentionally omits a sunna, it is an offence and this offensiveness is worse
than mere dislike. The individual is rewarded for performing a sunna and
reproached for leaving it with a small sin. Indeed blame is easier than
punishment.


Oph y Sim]Ay
The sunan of prayer are fiftyone;
٣ on Kd Veldny dey Jo MU OuS I eli dey pe sal ai,
To raise the hands for the opening Allahu akbar to the level of the ears for a man
and slave, is sunna for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))would perform this[When beginning the prayer, the Prophet would give
takbir and then raise his hands until his thumb came near his ears]." Shafi'i
related a hadith from Ibn Umar who said[I saw the Prophet, when he opened
prayer would raise his hands until they were at the level of the shoulders]and the


Hanifa Madhhab enact upon this hadith in the event that one is ill. A free woman
is to raise her hands to the level of her shoulders.


qe ty


To stretch the fingers at the opening Allahu akbar is sunna. When raising the
hands for the opening takbir, one should keep the fingers of both hands stretched
and the palms should be facing the direction of prayer as the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))observed.


aol}rly(sacall La! ٤٥ ylasy


It is sunna for the follower behind the imam to say his opening takbir together
with his imam. This is the opinion of Imam Abu Hanifa provided the follower
does not finish saying the name, 'Allah or akbar' before the imam does. It is
therefore closely linked. However, according to the two jurists, it is sunna for the
follower to utter Allahu akbar after the imam has completed the takbir, though
without separation, such that he is to connect the alif in the name of Allah with
the letter r in akbar in the imam's takbir(meaning when the imam utters the letter r in
the word akbar, it is sunna for the follower to say Allah at that point).'


" Darqutani, ١/٣٠٠-Abu Yala in his Musnad, ١/٣٨٩.
? Nur al-Idah, ٨٩ / Maraky al-Falah, ١٤٦.


١§٥٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


AS sale Jo ped aS sb Jat Ul aus I die ٥ pe CZ ٥ pall fo palo Jo adios
dot de ele Wy pad ale os II


It is sunna for a male to place his right hand over his left hand under the navel.
Ali((God be pleased with him))said[Verily, it is from the sunna to place the right
hand over the left under the navel]" and the technique of this placement is to
place the inside of the right hand over the top part of the left hand, forming a
circle with the little finger and thumb around the wrist.


GIF pdb ye La se Jo bee I A ants


It is sunna for a female to place her hands on her chest without the formation of a
circle with her hands.


oly


The opening glorification[thana']is sunna, and it is to say: 'Glory be to You, O
Allah! And I praise You. Blessed be Your name, and Exalted is Your majesty.
There is no god other than You.'[Subhanaka Allahuma wa bi-hamdika, wa tabaraka
ismuka, wa ta'ala jadduka wa lailaha ghayruka|. This is also referred to as the
opening supplication or the opening praise.
ool a ٣ pol ٣

To seek protection in Allah from the accursed Satan for the recitation of Quran is
sunna. This is known as the fa 'awwudh. And the one who arrives late to prayer is
to recite the ta'awwudh during his make-up actions for the reason that he must
recite Quran for himself, in which case it is sunna for him to observe this. Allah


the Exalted said((When you read the Quran, seek God's protection from Satan
the rejected one))."


٤S)JS Syl ioctl y


To say, Tn the name of God, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate,' at the beginning of
every rak'ah before the Fatiha is sunna. This is termed the tasmtyya. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would begin his prayer with 'Bismillahi
Rahmani Rahim,' and the saying that this is wajib is weak.'


cult,


It is sunna to say, 'Amin' after the Fatiha for the imam, follower and the one
praying alone.'
doer! ٣


" Darqutani ١/٢٨٦.

: Quran ١٦:٩٨.

> Maraky al-Falah ١٤٧.
* Maraky al-Falah ١٤٧.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٣





When rising from the bowing posture, it is sunna to praise God by saying Our
Lord, praise is only for You,'[Rabbana walakal hamd|. This is sunna for the
follower and the one praying alone according to the consensus of Hanafi scholars,
whereas Abu Hanifa held that it is sunna for the imam to say, "Sami Allahu Liman
Hamidah" only, whereas the two companions maintained that it is sunna for the
imam to say "Sami' Allahu liman hamidah, Rabbana walakal hamd," although they
held that the last part is said silently. And this view has been narrated from Abu
Hanifa as well.


le edly
It is sunna to recite all these utterances silently, i.e. the opening glorification[thana}, seeking protection in God from Satan the accursed[ta'awwudh], uttering
the name of God[tasmiyya], saying 'Amin' and praising God[tahmid].


ol Nalblb ws op dn pull te Sle,


To stand upright at the time of the opening Allahu akbar without hanging(or
bowing)the head, is sunna.


Cells ٢Sb PLM ers


It is sunna for the imam to say the opening Allahu akbar aloud as well as the
tasmi'(which is, Sami Allahu liman hamidah—Allah has heard those who praise him).


Spreading the feet the distance equal to four fingers when standing. Abdullah ibn
Mas'ud saw a person standing in prayer with his two feet together and judged it to
be against the sunna. He advised the person that if he practiced murawaha, it
would have been more preferable." The word murawaha is normally taken to mean
to stand on one foot and then the other, alternating between them as the other
becomes tired. Although another meaning is to leave a slight gap between the feet,
and this is the preferred view according to the above narration since the person
was standing with the feet together. Based on this, the hadith means that
Abdullah ibn Mas'ud instructed to leave a small gap between the feet since the
sunna was not to completely join them(and neither to keep them far apart).
Furthermore, the sunna of standing in the lines is to join the shoulders as is
clearly apparent in hadith and if a person is to spread the feet beyond the
shoulder width, then it will be impossible to still maintain shoulder contact.


cpg eldally pant Gable sh soy pglally mall J fad Spb oye FU ds alls, pO Sls
Kean ONS gS pall J esas





" An-Nasai ١/١٤٢.
? Fiqh al-Imam.


١٥٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


For the fajr and dhuhy prayer, the surah that follows the Fatiha is to be from the
lengthy part of the mufassal section. The mufassal section is the last seven sections
of the Quran which begins from surah al-Hujurat to surah an-Nas, and its lengthy
part is from surah al-Hujurdat to surah al-Buruj; and for the 'asr and 'sha prayer,
the surah is to be from its medium part which is from surah al-Buryj to surah al-
Bayyinnah, and for the maghrib prayer it is sunna to recite from its smallest part
which is from surah al-Bayyinnah to the end, and this is provided one is a
resident.


Lali lS JolLesy ye tay


If one is a traveller, then he may recite any surah he wishes and this is the sunna.
The same applies if there is a desperate need, in that it is sunna to recite any
surah. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[When I stand for
prayer, I intend to pray it long but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut it short, as
I dislike to trouble the child's mother]." There is also a report that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Recited the mu'awwidhatain in the dawn
prayer whilst in travel].


htt pl G Ug VII,


To lengthen only the first rak'ah of the dawn prayer is sunna, the wisdom being
that the dawn prayer is a time of sleep and unawareness and one prolongs the first
rak'ah in order for the people to make the prayer and increase the gathering.
However, Imam Muhammad says, "It is recommended to lengthen the first
rak'ah of all prayers." In addition, it is disliked to lengthen the second rak'ah over
that of the first by reading more than two verses, an issue they agreed upon. With
respect to voluntary prayer, the rules are not as stringent.'


CW arty £٩٥ Ni nS y


It is sunna to utter the takbir of ruku(bowing)and to glorify God three times
therein. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would make takbir
every time he declined(for ruku).' And with respect to the glorifications, the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If one performs ruku, he
should say three times, "Glory be to my Lord the great" and this is the minimum].' In
addition, if the imam lifts his head from the bowing posture before the follower
has completed this three tasbih, then he is to join the imam, and this is the correct
view.


٠ prey heed)dy ny ٠ ٤b day y BL Cnaig lg a Vad Myc darbal ee iy qty an Sy del,





" Bukhari ٧٠٧.

* Maraky al-Falah ١٤٩.
٣ Muslim ٣٩٢.

" Abu Dawud ٨٨٥.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٥


When bowing, it is sunna to grab the knees with the hands and to spread the
fingers out. The female is not to extend her fingers. It is also sunna in the bowing
posture, to keep the legs vertical while the back is straight and to make the head
even with the buttocks as related in the hadith[If the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))was in ruku he would even his back that if water was
poured on his head it would remain]."


Ltakae oda Lally ¢ ٩٥S cp ad sly


To rise from the bow and then stand for a moment in serenity is from the sunan,
whereas Abu Hanifa held the rise as obligatory.


٢? ٤ SE ٩ ٢ greed dpe ٩ pF od ol Sy Ay


When offering the prostration, it is sunna to place the knees upon the ground,
followed by the hands, and thereafter the face. Additionally, it is sunna to do the
opposite when rising from prostration(i.e. the face, hands and knees). If however
one is frail, then he may do what is possible.[The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))would when he was performing prostration place his knees
before his hands, and when rising, would raise his hands before his knees}.(ar)eb pS ٢ prot! Sy


To say, 'Allahu akbar' when declining for prostration and when rising from it, is
sunna as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would recite Allahu
akbar for every incline and decline.'


٤S Uy > yrSl OS


To prostrate between the palms is sunna. The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))[Would place his face between his hands when prostrating].' Whereas
Imam Shafi'i disagreed and used as proof the hadith related in Bukhari, that is[When the Prophet prostrated, he would place his hands near his shoulders].


Uttering the tasbih, 'Glory be to my Lord, most high' three times in the prostration is
sunna. Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud reported the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))as saying[When one of you bows, he should say three times: 'Glory be to
my Lord the great,' and when he prostrates, he should say: 'Glory be to my Lord
most high' three times. This is the minimum number].'


OM ٩٦ ٦١٥٣٩ tee Yo py ISS oe aly fo Nilile,


" Tbn Majah ٨٧٢.

٢ Abu Dawud ٨٣٧.
٣ Muslim ٣٩٢.

* Muslim ٤٠١.

٥ Abu Dawud ٨٨٥.


١٥٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


It is sunna for a man to distance his abdomen from his thighs, his elbows from his
sides and his arms off the ground. Ibn Abbas(God be pleased with him)said: I
came to the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))from behind. I saw the
whiteness of his armpits and he kept them far away from his sides and raised his
stomach{from the ground)}."
andy Lge ogy AN stata,

It is sunna for the woman to reduce the distance between her limbs by connecting
her abdomen with her thighs. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))passed by two women who were praying and said((If you perform prostration,
then link some of the limbs together))."


CSdowsl oy HSAs & yl,


It has already been stated that the rising from the prostration to a point that is
near to a sitting position is obligatory. However, it is sunna to completely rise
from the prostration assuming the sitting position to its full. Additionally, it is
sunna to briefly adopt the sitting position between the two prostrations.


Age! SAS Coto Oy kb cp deed le cpa e٢٩٣


During the brief sitting between the two prostrations, it is sunna to place the
hands on the thighs, just as one does in the sitting of tashahhud. During this sitting,
one is not to take hold of the knees and this is the correct view.


ral nay ٥ pal bee y pl pals


During the brief sitting between the two prostrations and during the sitting of
tashahhud, it is sunna for a man to lay down his left foot on its left side and sit on it
while the right foot is allowed to stand upright with the heel in the air so that the
toes are facing the direction of prayer, as was related from Ibn Umar((God be


pleased with him)).' This is known as the /ftirash style.
al pl ٤٥ IPI


The female is to adopt the tawarruk style of sitting, which is one's posterior on the
ground and the left foot on its side, emerging from under the right which is
vertical.

SY ae gantry a)tre Upad Bolg ee HLL aowall JULY
It is sunna to gesture with the index finger when reading the tashahhud, as held
by all four Imams as the correct view. Abdullah Ibn al- Zubair said: The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))used to point with his finger and he would


" Abu Dawud ٨٩٨.
? Al-Baihaqi ٢/٢٢٣, Sunan al-Kubra.
٣ An-Nasai ١/٢٤٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٧


not move it." And this is the view held by Abu Hanifa whilst Imam Malik relied
upon other traditions indicating that the Prophet did move his finger. The
method of indicating with the finger is to raise it at the time of rejecting the
notion of partnership to Allah and is lowered when affirming that it is only Allah.
Thus, it is raised when one says in the tashahhud 'la tlaha' and lowered when
affirming 'Illa Allah.'


cd Vi day(eb EW el Sy


The recitation of the Fatiha after the first two rak'ahs is sunna according to the
most correct view whereas Imam Abu Hanifa held it as wayib.


JEM gl poleey ae bl Joo gill Une Jo Bally


The recitation of the ibrahémiyya in the last sitting of the prayer is sunna. However,
to send blessings upon the Prophet once in a lifetime is obligatory as Allah said[O you that believe! Send ye blessings on him and salute him with all respect].


tt SY Ry old bl on Lely


It is sunna to supplicate with words that resemble the Quran and the sunna of the
Prophet, not the general talk of the people(after reading the tbrahimiyya). The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Our prayers cannot be
correct with the talk of people included in it]. Abu Bakr reported that he said to
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)), "Teach me, O Messenger of
Allah, supplication, that I may ask for in my prayer." Upon which the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said, "Say, "O Allah! I have done great
wrong to myself and none except You forgives sins, so forgive me and be Merciful
to me as You are the AllForgiving, the Most-Merciful."].* Note: It is not
permissible to supplicate in prayer that which resembles the general talk of the
people, such as, "O Allah! Marry me to this person or give me this much gold."
Hence, the sunna is to supplicate that which has been conveyed to us through revelation, though
uttering something which resembles the talk of the people nullifies prayer.
Geel Lyle pile SUEY,
Turning to the right and then left in the two finishing salams of prayer is sunna.
ee Selb ott cele y deadly Sle SL Miss

In the two finishing salams of the imam, it is sunna for the imam to intend in both
his salams, the men praying with him as well as the females and children, the
guardian angels,' and the pious jinns, and this is the most correct view.


Essentially, the imam is giving salam to the aforementioned persons.


" Abu Dawud ٩٨٤.

? Al-Ahzab ٥٦.

٣ Muslim, an-Nasai ١٢١٧.[Maraky al-Falah ١٥٣].

* Bukhari ٨٣٤.

° The guardian angels are those that record the sayings and actions of man and prevent him
from harm.


١٥٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


cl cdkey Maid y ٦ ill ar nrenkesll Galg oldle OLy acgr Gamble yell,


It is sunna for the follower to intend the imam in the side the imam is on.
Meaning if the imam is on the right side of the follower, then he is to intend him
in the salam on the right, and if the imam is on the left side, then the follower is to
intend him in the left salam. If however, the follower is next to the imam, he is to
intend the imam in both the salams, including the people, guardian angels and
pious jinns.
bt AW > all is,

It is sunna for the one praying alone to intend only the angels in his finishing
salams, provided no one is with him.


Ja! oe TSE aie
The tone of the second finishing salam should be made lower than that of the first.
ey! ae ٤٣ las y
It is sunna for the follower to say his finishing salams together with the salams of
his imam according to Imam Abu Hanifa, while the two jurists maintained that
one is to offer his salams after the salams of the imam. Narrated: 'Itban bin Malik(God be pleased with him): We offered prayer with the Prophet and used to finish
our prayer with the taslim along with his."


dh sola
To begin the finishing salam from the right side is sunna.
cle! ٢١,٥ G goall Uasl,


It is sunna for the latecomer to the group prayer to wait until the imam has given
both the finishing salams before making up what he missed. The reason for this is
to ensure that the imam has finalised his prayer and is not going to observe
prostrations of forgetfulness, for the latecomer has no knowledge of this due to his
late arrival.


" Bukhari ٨٣٨.


١٥٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


CPN elle Dasdy ¢ gill ae peas Gal gi oldle Oly ecg jas]plll ٢٣,


It is sunna for the follower to intend the imam in the side the imam is on.
Meaning if the imam is on the right side of the follower, then he is to intend him
in the salam on the right, and if the imam is on the left side, then the follower is to
intend him in the left salam. If however, the follower is next to the imam, he is to
intend the imam in both the salams, including the people, guardian angels and
pious jinns.

bb TSW ٩ ell iy


It is sunna for the one praying alone to intend only the angels in his finishing
salams, provided no one is with him.
IM op LU aie,
The tone of the second finishing salam should be made lower than that of the first.
ell pA acd ling
It is sunna for the follower to say his finishing salams together with the salams of
his imam according to Imam Abu Hanifa, while the two jurists maintained that
one is to offer his salams after the salams of the imam. Narrated: 'Itban bin Malik(God be pleased with him): We offered prayer with the Prophet and used to finish
our prayer with the taslim along with his."


cnadl dots,
To begin the finishing salam from the right side is sunna.
LY E١٥ GB yell Ul


It is sunna for the latecomer to the group prayer to wait until the imam has given
both the finishing salams before making up what he missed. The reason for this is
to ensure that the imam has finalised his prayer and is not going to observe
prostrations of forgetfulness, for the latecomer has no knowledge of this due to his
late arrival.


" Bukhari ٨٣٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٩


sua)! tal gy
The Etiquette of Prayer |Adab
ASN bib hen oye SAS Sor hal belal oy


It is from the etiquettes of prayer for a man to withdraw his hands from his
sleeves at the commencement of the opening Allahu akbar.[dae ene My Lette ٠ ram Sy Lele aah ٢٥١ Sy LAST pal al SLs[BU oo pre ad ye St rally


It is recommended to look at the area of prostration when standing; at the top
part of the feet when bowing; at the tip of the nose when in prostration; at the lap
when sitting and at the shoulders when giving the final salams. This is
recommended for both male and female, the intended aim being to protect
oneself from distraction. If one is blind or in darkness, then he should reflect
about the greatness of Allah. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Worship Allah as though you see Him, but if you are unable to(acquire this
level as though you)see Him, you should place in your mind that He sees you]."


car! L Stl t٢٣


It is recommended to resist coughing as much as one is able to. If one coughs for
no reason, prayer is nullified.


SUI sre and has y


It is recommended to keep the mouth closed when yawning, even if one must
grab his lips with his teeth, and if one is unable to do so, then he should cover his
mouth with his hand or sleeve. And if one covers his mouth with his hand or
sleeve, even though he has the ability to grabs his lips with his teeth, then it is
disliked. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Yawning in
prayer is from Satan, so if anyone yawns, then he should close his mouth as much
as he is able].'


CHW ee: LB ce phil
It is recommended for the imam and people to stand for the prayer at the time


the caller says, 'come to success' — for the reason that the caller is giving an order to
come forth, and it needs to be answered.


It is recommended that the imam begin the prayer when the caller says, the prayer
is commencing' according to Imam Muhammad and Zufar, whereas Abu Yusuf
stated that it is valid to begin once the call to commence the prayer(igama)has
finished as held by the majority of scholars in the Hanafi Madhhab.


" Bukhari ٥٠.
? AtTirmidhi, The Book of Prayer ٣٧٠ | Muslim.


١٦٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


Mall ٥ ٧ ٤٢٥ ٣
How The Prayer Is P. d(pSV ional b ٢)Legh cade eS od aal ebde pads pod dead ye ٤a @ NaI Gel fo Ih ot]When one intends to pray, he is to withdraw his hands from his sleeves(though
not for a female)and then raise them to the level of the ears and utter the opening
Allahu akbar without extending the letters. One is to form his intention of prayer
when he says Allahu akbar. With respect to extending the letters, this means that
it is not permissible to extend the Aamza in the name of Allah in the saying of
Allahu akbar because the expression would then turn into an enquiry, which is an
indication of doubt. If one intentionally does this, it amounts to disbelief.
Likewise, it is not permissible to extend the hamza and the letter ٣' in akbar. If one
extends either one of these three letters, then he is legally regarded as a person
who is not praying and the prayer is void. With respect to extending the letter ٧' in
the name Allah, it is valid provided it is not made too long. As for extending the
letter 'h' in the name Allah, this is deemed incorrect in the Arabic language, though
it does not invalidate the prayer.


abl OLS SLs db pall ٥٣ JS py DI evar


It is valid to begin prayer with any pure glorification of God, such as 'Glory be to
Allah' or There is no god but Allah' even though it is disliked. The remembrance is to
be pure and utter remembrance not mixed with the requests of a person's needs,
such as, 'O Allah forgive me' because one is asking for forgiveness and neither with
'There is no power or might except Allah' and neither with 'Whatever Allah wills' because
one is asking for the removal of evil and harm, and neither 'In the name of Allah'
because one is asking for blessing.'


Cee a bee Sol By dae Wh ney ٢ ene Vp by de pall oe je OJ Le Mh


The opening Allahu akbar is permitted in Persian if one is unable to say it in
Arabic, which was a saying of Abu Hanifa upon which he later overturned.' If
however one is able to say the opening Allahu akbar in Arabic, then his
commencement of that prayer in Persian or any other language is invalid.
Likewise, the recitation of Quran in any other language other than Arabic is
invalid in a ritual prayer.


Sarg fll ibe J pip OF yay Lacie Uys hy day pull ie ٦ pF oly Jo tens aad y ol
Spo SVs Soe dss Henl Sols


" Nur al-Idah ٩٣.

? Maraky al-Falah ١٥٧.

٣ This means that one is permitted to utter a sentence which expresses the meaning of the
Allahu akbar in another language should one be unable to do so in Arabic.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٦١





Thereafter, one is to place his right hand over the left hand under the navel
without delay after the opening Allahu akbar, for this is the sunna during standing
according to Abu Hanifa." Then, one is to recite the opening glorification, which
is: "Glory be to You, O Allah, and I praise You. Blessed is Your name, and Exalted is Your
majesty. There is no god other than You." With respect to the placing of one hand over
the other under the navel, this is to be observed even during the opening
glorification or praise, for it is considered a sunna that is part of the standing. The
rule is that each performance of prayer in which words of invocation(ie. dhikr)is
prescribed by the sunna, the hands are to be folded, though not for performance
where such recitation is not prescribed. They are therefore folded in the state of
gunut(supplication), funeral prayer, though are released during the rise from the
bowing and between the additional takbirs of Eid as there is no dhikr or recitation.


jar JS arts
It is sunna upon anyone who prays to begin with this opening glorification


whether it is the imam, his follower or one who prays alone. If however a
latecomer attends the prayer, he is to recite this supplication if the imam has not
begun to recite Quran, whereas if the imam begins reciting, the follower is to
remain silent.


GIANY GB yabhg GL tel aU ٣


One is then to say the ta'awwudh for recitation, saying "I seek refuge with Allah
from Satan the rejected," provided he is the imam or praying alone. This is due to
the words of the Exalted[When you read the Quran, seek God's protection from
Satan the rejected one]. The latecomer to the prayer[masbug]is to say the
ta'awwudh, though the one who begins with the imam[mugtadi]is not to. Note: the
latecomer is to observe the ta'awwudh when he stands to make up what he missed
of the prayer, because he must recite Quran for himself.


PASI ARS ye >


One is to delay the ta'awwudh until after the additional takbirs of the Eid prayer on
the basis that the ta awwudh is for the recitation of Quran and yet recitation comes
after the additional takbirs of Eid.


Lah AU ٥ WS, JS je BN ce ID rms le rte?


Thereafter, one is to silently say, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate." Anas bin Malik(God be pleased with him)reported that the
Prophet, Abu Bakr and Umar used to begin prayer with; All praise be to Allah, the
Lord of all that exists |al-hamdu Lillahi Rabbil 'alamin),' which clearly indicates that


" The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[A part of the sunna is the placing of
the right hand over the left below the navel]. This is recorded by Abu Dawud from Ali(God be
pleased with him).

At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Prayer ٢٤٥.


١٦٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


the tasmiyya would be uttered silently. And anyone who recites Quran in prayer is
to say, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate," in every rak'ah
before the Fatiha only whether it be an obligatory or voluntary prayer.
Furthermore, it is not sunna to say the fasmiyya between the Fatiha and a surah,
but it is not disliked. And this is by agreement of the scholars.


ATW shay pels SL pyellly LY sal, aFWIL So


The Fatiha is then recited, after which the imam and the followers say, 'Amin'
silently. This is followed by the recitation of a surah from the Quran or three
verses. Silently in this case means, able to hear oneself, though inaudible to
others.


Coa pd coliod LWd.y UE a ames Mapbcl be phn dyes ٢٥٩ Mise jean od b pane Laden LST St
Jearhy Sy Grill a joe MLL! J LSU ley oe oh dal ae EG SLI, a,


One is then to say 'Allahu akbar' while moving downwards into the bowing
posture and pause for a moment in serenity(in the bowing posture)placing his
head evenly with his buttocks and holding the knees with his hands extending the
fingers and uttering the tasbih, 'Glory be to my Lord the great' three times which is the
minimum. Thereafter, he is to rise and pause for a moment at ease saying "Allah
has heard those who praise Him, our Lord all praise is Yours," if he is imam or praying
alone. It is sufficient for the follower to say, 'Lord, all praise is Yours,'[Rabbana
walakal hamd]as we were ordered in the hadith[If the imam says, "Allah has
heard those who praise Him," then say, "Our Lord, all praise is Yours."]."


Lene Utne ager y Ais trey AS One M٤ oF A oF MASI OSI Fo prenUILLE Soh
ebol ٢U٣.٥ UX


After that, one is to say, 'Allahu akbar' when declining into prostration and is to
place his knees on the ground, then his hands followed by his face between his
palms. He is to perform the prostration with his nose and forehead and pause for
a moment saying 'Glory be to my Lord most high' three times, and this is the
minimum.


Leadon, Ugalar ٣ ٣١٥ y


In the prostration, one is to distance his abdomen from his thighs and distance
his upper arm from the armpits when there is no crowd or cramming; and he is to
direct the fingers of his hands and toes of his feet towards qibla. The female in
prostration connects her limbs bringing them close together joining her abdomen
with her thighs. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))(Used to
prostrate creating as much space(between his torso and thighs)that if a kid(goat)" Bukhari ٧٣٤.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٦٣


wished it could pass through this space]." The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))also said[When a believer makes a prostration, each limb in his body


makes the prostration, therefore, he should make each limb face the qibla insofar
as he is able to]."


doen y ١S ٩٥ cbtabes gid Jo ay Lely oder dI oy bey(١S el, ٠٥)٠٣)PIN Le ee: yo LS aad aby ed ater cathy added ce acl Sle y UE ٤b eins Laan
٢ yd Why ety


He is then to rise from prostration saying 'Allahu akbar' and adopt the sitting
posture between the two prostrations pausing for a moment in serenity placing
the hands on the thighs. He then utters the 'akdir[Allahu akbar]and prostrates
for the second time and pauses for a moment at ease during which he says, 'Glory
be to my Lord most high' three times. In prostration, a man is to distance his
abdomen from his thighs and his upper arms from the armpits. Thereafter, he is
to raise his head saying the takdir and rise to the second rak'ah without depending


on the ground with one's hands and without briefly sitting, such as those of the
Shafi'i Madhhab observe.


dy Vy oh Yad YI VIS SU as MN,


The second rak'ah is performed like the first one with the exception that there is
no thana'(opening glorification)nor is there ta'awwudh, which is seeking refuge in
Allah from Satan for recitation of Quran.


WS pe Gi gS ey ٥g My Vall fo ٩ yy ry oye ad le ry aS Cy ry
OI glial ie Cer Ae y gla gly SW ٨ pal go dey Alo yo


It is not sunna to raise the hands, such as for the bowing posture or when rising
from it, except for the opening takbir of all prayers, the takbir of qunut(supplication
of witr)and for the additional takbirs of both Eids. Externally from prayer, it is
sunna to raise the hands at, i)the time one sees the ka'bah; ii)at the time one
greets the black stone, iii)when one is upon the Safa and ManwaA, that is, upon
standing where the ka'bah can be seen one is to say, "Allahu akbar, there is no
god except Allah" raising the hands opening them directly towards the sky and
supplicating; iv)when one is standing in Arafah and Muzdalifah, it is sunna to
raise the hands; v)after the first and middle stoning of the jamrahs(it sunna to
raise them for supplication);' and lastly, vi)it is sunna to raise the hands after
every prayer when one has completed the tasdih. The rule is based on the words of
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[The hands are not to be


'Ibn Abi Shaybah, Ahmad. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٨٦.
? An-Nasai, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٨٧.
* Bukhari ١٧٥٢.


١٦٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


raised except on seven occasions: the takbir of the opening(glorification); the
takbir of qunut(supplication); the takbirs of the two Eids; and he mentioned four
occasions for the hajj(pilgrimage)]."


gu lgesll ٤ ٥٩ obiny aig pede pale y ٥ pal abe y > fl ESI AAS NN jdm oe Jr IES NBL
S٥٩٥ oi Ay enol bans y itd fo any adyy ill


When the male completes the second prostration of the second rak'ah, he is to sit
for tashahhud and is to spread his left foot and sit upon it while his right foot is
upright with the toes directed towards the qibla. During this, he is to place his
hands on his thighs flattening his fingers. This method of sitting is known as the
iftirash style. And the female is to adopt the tawarvuk style of sitting, because this


provides the best cover for her.

Jai Vy ASW ae Ugarny gill se Ug yp Bolg jn dL Lely ace al go yo yas lig l sy

lS py dlinyy gol bel the pA obebally Ol ally ob low! ppg dyVlo gail Gugtll Je
A)gery tee Maat Ot agcly dl Y]UY of aged tla dil abe Jey Wyle eA!


One is then to utter the tashahhud as reported by Ibn Mas'ud and indicate with the
index finger for shahada, raising it at the negation[there is no god]and lowering it
when affirming[except Allah]. Nothing is to be added to the tashahhud during
the first sitting, for one must not delay the standing for the third rak'ah. The
tashahhud is, "Greeting to Allah. Peace be on you, O Prophet, and the Mercy of
Allah and His blessings. Peace be upon us and upon Allah's righteous slaves. I
testify that there is no god except Allah and that Muhammad is the Messenger of
Allah." Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud(God be pleased with him)said[The Messenger((God bless him and grant him peace))took me by the hand and taught me the
tashahhud just as he taught me a surah of Quran, and said, "Say: Greeting to Allah.
up to its end"}.?


Ne Leo ob pedeny ale abt feo cll ite fo ro of Agel Sy ole ot CV ue ls bab ZIT ٥s,
WPA[Sane pe Legh c abl Um yy Sebo pH: I ydad Lyla y Lewy ple pd Gly OF I ty,


Subsequently, one is to recite the Fatiha alone in the last two rak'ahs. He is then
to sit in the last rak'ah and recite the tashahhud, followed by the ibrahimiyya. He
then supplicates, that which resembles the Quran and sunna. Upon completion,
the finishing salams are to be made beginning with the right, then the left saying
"May peace be upon you, and the Mercy of Allah" during which one is intending
in his salams those who are with him as was mentioned earlier.


" Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٨٩-٣٩٠.
? Muslim.


BOOK I: PRAYER ١٦٥


ULF ol
The Imamate
LgrS> y lg
Its Rank and Ruling
OI os rail
To be the imam of a group prayer is superior than giving the call to prayer[adhan|
phe WH yh >W She DU ar Se| LL rally


To offer prayer in congregation is an emphasized sunna for a free man who has
no valid excuse to be absent. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((I planned or was about to order the collecting of firewood and then order
someone to lead prayer, then I would go from behind and burn the houses of men
who did not present themselves for the(prescribed)prayer))." The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))was diligent with respect to the congregational
prayer throughout his whole life and one should not leave it unless there is a valid
reason.


LubY ine by
Conditions That Validate The Position Of Imam
Bel ly By Sy Jaally & gly PHY: Lol nn leo Sle JULY de by ٥٥
The conditions that validate the position of imam for a male of sound health are six;


١- Islam. If one rejects the Judgement Day or the Caliphate of Abu Bakr or the
Prophets Companions(God be pleased with them all)or curses or swears at Abu
Bakr and Umar or rejects the intercession of the Prophet and examples as such,
then his position as imam is invalid.


٢- Maturity. The prayer of a boy is considered as a voluntary one even if he is
praying an obligatory prayer.


٣- Sanity. Prayer behind a person with no capacity to discriminate or differentiate
between things is invalid.


٤- Male. It is not permitted for a male to pray behind a hermaphrodite or female.


٥- Recitation of Quran from memory. One must memorise a minimum of three
short verses or one long verse in order to validate his position of imam.


Gay decal, slat, Ge MS Nie op» SAS


" Bukhari ٦٤٤.


١٦٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


٦- It is conditional to be free from excuses such as: a)a perpetual nose bleed,
b)stuttering with letters(usually with the letter f), c)mumbling or muttering in
one's speech which usually entails repetition of the letter ٤', d)lisping, which is,
not pronouncing the letters correctly, such as pronouncing the 'sin' as a 'tha' or the
'a' as a 'ghain', and in this situation it is not valid for others to pray behind him
unless those behind him suffer from the same problem.!


٣)fury dylghS b ١٣,


Likewise, one's position as imam is invalid if he is missing a condition such as the
absence of purity or exposure of one's nakedness[awrah]. It is not valid for the
imam to be naked whilst those behind him are clothed.


olay inno by


Conditions That Validate The Following Of The Imam
eat pte in | olUS Vi ine by Sy
The conditions that validate the following are fourteen
diay ped B ylis Sy lll gucall ٤٣


The follower is to make his intention to follow the imam at the opening Allahu
akbar. Note: joining the intention to the saying of Allahu akbar is of two types; the
first is the real or true joining[hagigiyya]and the second is the legal[Aukmiyya}joining. The hagigiyya is to intend in one's heart together with the saying of the
opening Allahu akbar. As for the Aukmiyya, it is to intend and then shortly after
that say, 'Allahu akbar' without a long gap between them. Both are deemed
correct in the Hanafi Madhhab with Imam Shafi'i maintaining that it is a
stipulation that the link be true[hagigiyya].? Note: one must also intend the prayer
in his intention. See The Conditions of Prayer in the earlier chapter.


a cL olidlind b UL fo Jas,


If there are females who wish to join the group prayer, the male imam must
intend being their imam so that their following of him is valid. If he does not,
then their following will not be correct.


pelt ٣٦ ate PLY pass


The heel of the imam is to be in front of the heel of the follower, otherwise the
follower's prayer is invalid.


" Nur alldah ٨٧.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٢٦.


BOOK Ii: PRAYER ١٦٧


The imam must not be in a lesser state than the one following him, such as the
imam praying a voluntary prayer while the follower is offering an obligatory one


or the imam is praying while suffering from a chronic disorder, yet the follower is
free from illness.


٤ ٣ pols ٣ Lae PLO S Vy


It is conditional that the obligatory prayer of the imam not be different to the
obligatory prayer of the follower. This means that both must be praying the same
obligatory prayer because the follower is in partnership with the imam and there
must be unity so that the prayer of the imam is joined to the prayer of the
follower. According the Imam Shafi', it is valid if they are different.


Syme Vy Keb)DCIS dey SLL LH OS VI,


It is not valid for a traveller who is shortening prayer to pray behind a resident
imam who is praying the full number of a four rak'ah prayer after its time has
ended; meaning, when the time of a four rak'ah obligatory prayer has expired, a
traveller cannot pray behind a resident imam who is performing it at such time.
And neither can a latecomer to the congregational prayer be an imam for anyone
else. Consider the following: when a person who arrived late to the prayer stands
to make up what he missed, no one can come and join him, and if someone does,
the following is invalid."


HL oy ie g pally PLY oy raw Vy


A row of women must rot divide the imam and the male followers; otherwise the
following is not correct. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said{If there is between the imam and himself, a river, or road or a row of women,
there is no prayer for him].?


dell ٤d oF Gb Vy dr٩ ٣٤٣ per oe at Wy


A river large enough for a boat to pass through is not to divide one from his
imam and neither are they to be separated by a road which a cart could pas:
through.


ceed Slat Y ere ٥٥ sl pl ate dO PLY OVUEIL pall dns anty baile Vy


The imam and follower must not be separated by a wall in which the followei
does not know the changing actions of the imam due to sayings resembling eact
other. If there is no confusion with respect to hearing or seeing the imam, ther
the following is valid according to the most correct view. It is reported that t Ih
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would pray in the room of A'ishal
and the people in the mosque would be praying that same prayer behind him.'


" Maraky al-Falah ١٦٧, pt ٧.
? Abi Shaybah, ٢/٣٥.
* Abu Dawud ١١٢١. Al-Baihaqi ٣/١٠٩.


١٦٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


dale Glo pe LSI, sf Hel)gical LSI, LY OS VI,


The imam is rot to be riding upon a beast while the follower is walking on foot, or
the follower is riding a beast different to the beast of the imam. If however, they
are both riding the same beast or in the same vehicle, then imitating the imam is
correct.


eB fle ne ONG PLY, HA GOK Vy


The follower must not be on one boat while the imam is on another boat that is
not attached to it because in that case, they are deemed as two separate beasts.


WF jad g ocdany as ١٠.٩ ٦٣ o٩ DS ¢ yell ٦٥ pends eal]Se po gull abe VI


If the follower[mugtadi]knows that his imam is in an impure state, then his
following is not correct and he is to repeat the prayer. Hence, the follower must
not have knowledge that the imam's state is ruined according to his Madhhab,
such as blood flowing from an injury or vomiting a mouthful in which the imam
does not repeat wudu." However, if the follower does not know that the state of the
imam is ruined, the following is valid.


ae BYL Vo> jae VI olcil
When The Follower Is Better Conditioned Than The Imam


poe oF ٢ oll eens


It is valid for one in a state of ablution to pray behind one in a state of
tayammum. Amr Ibn al-'As((God be pleased with him))said: I had a sexual dream
on a cold night in the battle of Dhat al-Salasil. I was afraid if I washed, I would
die. I therefore, performed tayammum and led my companions in the dawn
prayer. They mentioned that to the Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant
him peace))upon which he said, "Amr, you led your companions in prayer while
you were in the state of janaba(sexual impurity)"? I informed him of the cause
that impeded me from washing, and said: "I heard Allah say[Do not kill yourself,
verily Allah is merciful to you"]. The Apostle laughed and did not say anything.'
This ruling however was disputed by Imam Muhammad who deemed it not-
permissible.


cle bes
One who washes his limbs such as his feet is permitted to pray behind one who
wipes them such as the khuf, splint, or bandages.


dela, ٣b


" For example, if a person witnessed the imam vomit a mouthful prior to the prayer and he
did not repeat wudu, then if the follower has adopted the Hanafi school of thought, then
his following of this imam is invalid.

* Abu Dawud ٣٣٤.


BOOK ll: PRAYER ١٦٩





One who stands is permitted to pray behind an imam who is seated. It has been
established that the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)prayed the
noon prayer during his sickness of death whilst sitting, and the people prayed
behind him as followers standing.' Imam Muhammad said that it is not permitted
and this is based on analogical reasoning[giyas]constructed upon the stronger
state of the person standing.'


wl,
To follow an imam who is hump-backed is valid.
alias p yoy


A person who prays through indication(nodding)is permitted to follow a person
like him, due to the equality of their status. That is, the imam and followers are all
praying through indication.


wp Hin J
It is permissible to offer a voluntary prayer behind an imam performing an


obligatory one because one is constructing a weak element upon something that is
stronger, namely, the obligatory prayer.


DEL G ySall awl edhe Bokeh, ٦ yall pe]PLY jy abel aah]Te Oy gb OL


If it becomes evident that the prayer of the imam is void, then one is to repeat the
prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If the Se s
prayer becomes invalid, then the prayer of whoever is behind him is invalid].' The
imam must announce to the people to repeat their prayers as much as he is able
to, such as writing or sending a message to inform them, and this is the opted
view on the matter. Abu Bakr((God be pleased with him))said: The Apostle of
Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))began to lead(the people)in the
dawn prayer. He then signalled with his hand:(remain at your places). Then he
entered his home and returned while drops of water were coming down from his
head and he led them in prayer.





" Al-Baihaqi ٣/٤٣١(٥٦٩٧).

? AlHidayah.

* Mentioned by Ibn Al-Jawziya in the Book of Tahnik ١/٤٨٨.
* Abu Dawud ٢٣٣.


١٧٠ BOOK II: PRAYER
doltl jam bi. |
Exemptions From The Congregational Prayer
ee aE op dol lA yam hi,
The congregational prayer is excused if one of eighteen situations occurs;
un ٩ lb ٣٩٢ py pee
١- Heavy rain hard enough to wet one's clothing.


٢- In very cold conditions, i.e. a strong cold in which one fears for his safety.


٣- Fear from an oppressor. If one fears harm upon himself or that he may be
robbed of his possessions from a thief, whether it be a time of war or not, he is
excused.


٤- Darkness that is overwhelming.
٥- One who is confined, such as in lock up, custody or other.
Thojy Joys badly pliny Joys ty ahd y colds oes
٦- Being blind is deemed an exemption from the congregational prayer.
٧- If one suffers paralysis in some of his limbs[fa/j].


٨- If one has been dismembered losing his hand and leg, though if one is only
missing his hand, then he is not excused from the group prayer. If however one is
missing only a leg, then the correct verdict is that he is excused from the group


prayer.
٩- Poor health, such as flu or disease.
١٠- If one is crippled, i.e. unable to walk due to a crippling condition.


١١- In muddy conditions, one is exempt from having to attend the group prayer.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If the shoes become wet,
then pray in the homes]."


١٢- If a person suffers from a chronic illness, he is exempt.
٦ yi tol BJS te pty
١٣- Old age and feebleness is deemed a valid excuse as it entails difficulty.


١٤- Gaining knowledge of jurisprudence[figh]in a group is regarded as a valid
excuse for missing the group prayer provided one would miss this class if he
attends the congregational prayer. Hence, one is excused in this situation.
However, for Arabic grammar one is not excused.


" Ibn Hajar — Takhlis al-Habir ٢/٣١.


ea BOOK Ii: PRAYER wl
dant ٤٣ ٩٣٥ plab ٥ a> ٣
١٥- In the presence of food which one desires, one is excused for the reason that,


at this time one's mind is preoccupied and is not able to be firm and complete in
all the pillars, necessary requirements and recommended actions of prayer.


paw dolly
١٦- Preparing to travel and fear of missing the convoy one is travelling with. Note:
The travel itself is not an excuse; it is the fear of missing the convoy."


dhe YAY gaz Baty ٦ pe per dolby


١٧- Attending or caring for a sick person is a valid excuse as it would cause the ill
patient harm and hardship in the absence of a carer.


١٨- In the presence of a strong blowing wind at night, not during the day, one is
deemed exempt. A strong blowing wind at night has the potential to cause
problems such as hurling fragments in one's face etc.

shel ge J fava aboecl doll Le slick ope pi t(D ٣٦ pbatil ٥],


If one is cut off from the congregational prayer due to one of the reasons(which
allows one to be excused), then he is still rewarded provided he intended to pray
in the congregation, and even if one intended but there was no excuse for him, he
is still rewarded. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Actions
are by intentions}."


Gyiall ٥٥)ULL GV
The Most Entitled To Be Imam And The Etiquette Of The Lines
ULYL GI
The One With The Most Right To Be Imam
ULV God le VG Otel. ٩٣ Vy deb y Vy je abe ep OU Ow oR A


١- If the owner of the place is not present among the people, and neither the
appointed imam or a person of authority,' then the most learned in the rules of
prayer has the most right to be imam even if he does not possess a deep
knowledge of other areas. Note: If all these individuals gathered, the sultan has





" Hashia Ibn Abidin[Maraky al-Falah ١٧١].
? Bukhari.


> Such as a leader[amir]or judge[gadi]. In reality, the person of authority and rule is superior to
all of them including the owner of the place and the appointed imam. This is because his
authority and rule is general and it was narrated by Bukhari: Ibn Umar would pray behind al-
Hijaj and it is enough to say that he was disobedient.[See Fat-h al-Bari ٢/١٩]. Note: it states ١n
al-Binayah that this occurred in the time of the past given that people of authority were scholars
and the majority of them were pious.[Maraky al-Falah ١٧٢].


١٧٢ BOOK II: PRAYER





the most right to be imam, followed by the leader[amir], judge and then the
owner of the place. With respect to the owner of the place, the one who rents a
place of dwelling has more right to lead the prayer than the one who owns the
place. In addition, the judge has more preference over the imam of the mosque, a
point which is clearly stated in hadith that the Prophet said: "One should not be
led in his place of authority, nor should one sit on his takrima(bedding or seating
area)without his permission. ![AsSalkini states]One can be an imam in a house, mosque or any other place.
With respect to performing the prayer in a house, the possessor of authority and
rule[dhu sultan]has the most right to be imam, then the owner of the place,
though the owner of the place may give consent for others to lead. If the prayer is
offered in a mosque or any other common place, then the one who has authority[dhu sultan]i.e. the one who presides over and oversees Islamic affairs, whether he
be a ruler or judge — is also the one with the most right to lead the prayer. If the
one who possesses authority and rule(dhu sultan]is not present, then the imam of
the mosque is the one with the most right. If none of these individuals are present(ie. the one who holds authority and rule{dhu sultan]as well as the owner of the
place and the imam of the mosque), then the one with the most knowledge
concerning the rules of prayer has the most right followed by the rest of the
categories mentioned below."
Vis

٢- Thereafter the one most distinguished in the recitation of Quran; meaning one
who knows the rules of recitation. It does not merely mean the one who knows the
most Quran; rather he must know the rulings pertaining to its recitation, such as
when to stop, when to connect, how to pronounce the letters and the rules
associated with such issues. The Messenger of Allah(Peace and blessing of God
be upon him)said[The one who is well grounded in the Allah's book and is
distinguished among them in recitation should act as imam for the people].'
Indeed, some maintain(such as Abu Yusuf)that the one most distinguished in
recitation takes preference over the most learned. However, the response is that
recitation is needed for one essential element of prayer, whereas knowledge is
required for all the elements.'


eM segs sW ed
٣- Then the most pious[wara]. This term refers to one who abstains from


anything that appears to be forbidden. And this is regarded as a higher level than
piety as piety alone entails staying away from forbidden things.





" Muslim ٦٧٣ / Abu Dawud ٥٨٢ / Maraky al-Falah ١٧٢.
* Al-Figh alIslamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣١٦-٣١٧.

* Muslim ٦٧٢ / Maraky al-Falah ١٧٢.

' Al Hidayah, ١٣٣.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٧٣


٤- Then the oldest. The Prophet((May the peace and blessings of God be upon
him))said to two people((Whenever prayer time becomes due, you should
pronounce the adhan and then the iqama and the older of you should lead the


prayer))."

lal>- oe °
٥- Thereafter, the one with the best moral qualities, for the people behind him are
pleased with him as imam due to his personality and the followers may increase as


a result.
lexs ol e


٦- Then the one with the most handsome face, i.e. the most handsome because
beautiful features generally entails good within.


Ue aa FG yee Yoh a EY
٧- Then the one with the noblest lineage.
٨- Then the person with the most beautiful voice.
٩- Then the one with the cleanest clothes.


Nyolel aad Sy pe | yead Oly ASV)٠ sl(yi db Lake! Of ol SL gle pa ly el Of


If all are equal, they are to draw lots or choose the person the people want. If they
disagree, then the majority view decides the outcome. And if they select one who
is not the most appropriate, then indeed they have made an error, though there is
no sin.
reel]oS op oly
The Imamate That Is Disliked
All dole}٠ ٥"s
The imamate of an ignorant slave, i.e. one who is not learned in the laws of Islam.
el ٣
The imamate of a blind man is disliked because no one can direct him to the
direction of prayer during the prayer.
Ply ES yy GheWy


The imamate of a bedouin(desert dweller)and the child from fornication is
disliked as well as the imamate of an ignorant person. The reason for their dislike
is due to the reduced numbers they will attract. A bedouin most of the time is
ignorant, whereas the child resulting from fornication in this case means an
ignorant person with no knowledge and lacking discipline because of his father's


absence.


" Bukhari ٦٥٨.


١٧٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Hl,
The imamate of an immoral person is disliked due to his lack of emphasis in
religion.


gacdls


The imamate of an innovator in religion is disliked. Indeed, an innovator is one
who performs what the Prophet did not practice, preach or approve of and in
which there is no precedent.[Maraky al-Falah states.| Imam Muhammad reported
from Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf—that prayer behind the people of desite is not permitted,
whereas the most correct ruling is that it is lawful, though disliked so long as what
he innovates does not take him outside of the fold of Islam." It is therefore not
permissible to pray behind one who rejects the intercession of the Prophet or the
angels who record the actions of man, or the vision of God for the believers in the
hereafter, even if he says that God cannot be seen because He is exalted above all
things, as the Mu'tazila state. Equally, prayer behind an anthropomorphist is not
permitted, such as a person who says that God has a hand and leg similar to that
of His creation. Such a person is an innovator even if he says that God is a body
unlike all other bodies. In truth, God is neither a body nor substance. He is unlike
all things and nothing is like Him. Moreover, rejecting the leadership[khilafa]of
Abu Bakr is deemed unbelief just like one who rejects the Israh and Mi"raj.
Equally, it is not permissible to pray behind one who rejects the wiping of the
footgear or curses and swears at Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman or accuses A'ishah(may Allah be pleased with the Prophet's family and Companions). And it is not
permissible behind one who rejects something that is necessarily known in the
religion, given that it amounts to disbelief. Indeed, their interpretation of such
matters is disregarded."

aval Je play
It is disliked for the imam to lengthen the prayer to an extent where people detest
it. Rather one should perform the prayer according to the hadith of the Prophet((May the peace and blessings of God be upon him))[O People! Some of you
make others dislike good deeds. So whoever leads the people should shorten it].
Note: even if the believers do not mind the prayer being long, it is still disliked
due to the words of the Prophet[He who leads the prayer should make it short].*


al Jl acley
It is disliked for naked persons to perform the prayer in a group.
al lS ghey eLyi Ay cals of Lod,


" The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said "Pray behind every Muslim, pious or
impious." Abu Dawud ٥٩٤.

? Maraky al-Falah ١٧٤.

> Bukhari ٩٠.

* Bukhari[Maraky al-Falah ١٧٤].


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٧٥


It is disliked for women to gather and pray as a group. One of the reasons for its
dislike is due to the announcing of the call to prayer(adhan)and the call to
commence(iqama). Likewise, it is disliked for women to attend the congregational
prayer as the Prophet((Peace and blessing of God be upon him))said[Their
homes are better for them]and[Prayer in their homes are better]." If however the
females perform the prayer in their own congregation, it is necessary for the
female imam to stand in the middle advancing only her heel forward in the way
that a naked prayer is performed. If the female imam stands forward like a man,
she has sinned, though the prayer remains sound.


¢ pl ii ys


The Position Of The Follower
ails Sy PLY! cree ٦ Jol gl its,


If there is only one person with the imam, he is to stand to the right-hand side of
the imam. It is disliked to pray on the left side of the imam or behind due to the
hadith of Ibn Abbas who said, "I stood on the left side of the Prophet after which
he held me and directed me to his right;"' and if there is more than one person,


they are to pray behind the imam.
at! G eall ٥
The Manner Of The Lines
tL ad gtd ٦S dl wall ٦٥ Sle JI inary


The men are to form the first row or rows, then the boys, followed by the
hermaphrodites. This is a precautionary measure because if the hermaphrodite is
male then the standing behind boys will not harm them and if they are female
then she is already at the back, thereafter the females form the last row. Note: the
first line is considered as the best of all the lines in congregation. This is followed
by the second line and so on. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Divine mercy is bestowed first on the imam, then it passes to those who are
opposite to him in the first line, then to those on his right side, and then on the
left side; then it passes over to the second line, and other lines in the same


manner].

ao afo of
" Ahmad ٢/٨٦.
٢ Muslim ٧٦٣.


٣ Maraky al-Falah ١٢٢.


١٧٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





aby carly cps dale]Pj dey sacl aba(od


What the Follower Is To Do After the Imam Completes A Pillar Or Other
Ants etall ye gcd G١}J pel ple

If the imam offers the finishing salams(ending the prayer)yet the follower has not
completed his tashahhud, then he is to complete his tashahhud for the reason that
it is wajib, and thereafter perform his finishing salams. However, if the follower
has read the tashahhud, but not the ibrahimiya, then he is to omit this and give
salam with the imam on the basis that the ibrahimiya is sunna, though joining the
imam is necessary[wayib]. Additionally, if the imam has risen for the third rak'ah
and the follower has not yet recited the tashahhud, then he should recite it,
although if he does not complete it and rises with the imam, it is permissible.


darks > prod sf ٦ ٥ JI GU gard and JS and, PLY gd)yy


If the imam raises his head before the follower completes his three ¢asbih in
bowing or prostration, then the follower must join the imam leaving the tasbih.


ohm y ele Loss OL y ٦ iG ans Vale pe Vl o inl de i lite PLY ١٥ yy


If the imam forgetfully performs an extra prostration or stands up after performing
the last sitting, then the follower is not to join him, rather, he is to wait for the
imam. If the imam continues ahead and performs the extra rak'ah by prostrating
instead of sitting back down, then the follower is to give salam alone. If however,
the imam sits down after standing without registering the extra rak'ah by
prostrating, then the follower is to give salam with the imam.


Ab PA b Bm Bt SH aol ted Ob LF steal Le Of op yall acd Lal nV o gia ٥ PLY(lb Ly


And if the imam stands up for the fifth rak'ah forgetting to perform the last
sitting, the follower is to wait and utter tasbih to warn the imam. If the follower
gives the finishing salams alone before the imam prostrates in the additional
rak'ah, then the follower's prayer is nullified because he performed a pillar alone,
ie. the last sitting. Therefore, if the follower gives salam in this case before the
imam has registered the extra rak'ah by prostrating, then his prayer is void.


wee fo ple Vl tgs dn, sural pro Sy


After the imam recites the tashahhud in the last sitting, it is disliked for the
follower to offer the finishing salams before him. It is disliked because he has
disconnected from the imam although his prayer is valid. And if the sun rises
after the follower has given the finishing salams but before the imam had given
salam, then the followers prayer is deemed valid which is agreed upon. Abu
Hanifa held that the imam's prayer is void with his two companions disagreeing.'





" Maraky al-Falah ١٧٩.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٧٧
PF pal dy do ٥١ St ISS


Remembrance After The Prescribed Pra
O game ٥٨ IL Hears II J! pLit
To rise for the sunna prayer straight away and link it to the obligatory prayer is a
sunna of the Prophet((peace and blessing of God be upon him))with the
exception that it is recommended to separate a moment between them as A'ishah
reported that the Prophet would wait the amount of time it took to recite, "O


Allah, You are peace, and peace comes from You, Blessed You are, O Possessor of
glory and honour,"" thereafter he would stand for the sunna prayer.


SSN y tay I oy aly gael ALY: Ghd AsVI nat yey


It has been reported that Shams ala-Jmma al-Halawany said, "There is no harm in
reciting invocations between the obligatory and sunna prayer," though another
Hanifa text a/-Jkhtiyar maintains the contrary, stating that every prayer that is
followed by a sunna is disliked to sit and supplicate for. Instead, one should
become pre-occupied with the sunna so that he does not separate the sunna from


the obligatory prayer.
Noda firey Oly ٦ tl be ¢ gh ole UI pe OV ee dey pL Corres


After the imam offers the final salams, it is recommended that he move to his left
side to perform the supererogatory prayer which follows the obligatory one.
Thereafter, it is recommended that he face the people if he wishes after having
completed the supererogatory prayer. Samura Ibn Jundab narrated that the
Prophet((God grant him peace and blessing))used to face us on completion of the
prayer.'

UW dil Oy dren


One is then to seek forgiveness with Allah three times, as Thauban(God be
pleased with him)reported that when the Prophet of Allah finished his prayer; he
begged forgiveness three times and said, "O Allah! You are Peace, and peace
comes from You, Blessed You are, O Possessor of glory and honour."?


AY Y)Op)pd pb LUGS ٤٥٩ Soy HIS ٤٥ pat y Hy UW ail O prey ld pally(SI ٤١ O٩٠ pty
ily ean y gent pede od dd age JS Le pry debt dy HU cd th po Voto abl Y]٠١ pease al Ope el peal


" Abu Dawud, the Book of Prayer.
? Bukhari ٨٤٥.
> Muslim ٥٩١.


١٧٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


This is followed by reciting the verse al-Kursy and the mu'aueihatain, which are
the last two surahs of the Quran, as Uqbah Ibn Amir(God bepleased with him)said: the Apostle of Allah((God grant him blessings and peace]commanded me
to recite the mu'awwithat after every prayer." One is then toforify God thirty
three times(uttering "Glory be to Allah" — Subhana Allah), praie God thirty three
times(uttering "Al praise be to Allah" — Althamdu Lil Lah)and mapify His greatness
thirty three times(saying "God is great" — Allahu akbar)after which one is to say,
"None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, Alone, without part. To Him belongs
all Sovereignty and Praise, and He is over all things, Omnipotent." Twreafter, one is to
supplicate for himself and the Muslims with his hands raised and is to wipe his
face with his palms upon completion of the supplication. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[When you supplicate to God, spplicate with the
inward sides of your palms, and do not supplicate using their backsides. When
you have completed your prayer, wipe your face with them]."


٣>.aJl daw L wh
Nullifications Of Prayer *
Lt O py S٣١٨ yey
There are sixty-eight things that nullify prayer;
Uns Mpg by U١


Speaking a word during prayer, forgetfully or by mistake, renders the prayer void.
For example, one may have wanted to say 'O People' intending a verse of Quran
but instead said 'O Zaid'. The Prophet((God grant him peace and blessings))said[These prayers are such, that it is not correct to utter the talk of people in it].'
Imam Shafi'i disagrees with respect to the one who makes a mistake or forgets.


Supplication with words that resemble the general speech of the people
invalidates the prayer.
Lal py dol dm pI


———
" Abu Dawud ١٥١٨.

? Ybn Majah ١١٨١.

٣ Lexically, the word fasad means, contrary to right. Though according to the Hanafi scholars
of jurisprudence, it is the term commonly used in relation to acts of worship[{badat}and stands
in the same degree as the term 'buélan"(void, invalid). For example; one may say, "this prayer is
fasid"(unsound, corrupt), or "this hajj is fasid," or "this fast is fasid." And these sayings are the
same as saying, "this prayer is dafil"(invalid)or, "this hajj is dati," and "this fast is basil."
However, with respect to dealings, this is not the case. Hence, the term fased and butlan are
regarded as the same with respect to worship['ibadat]though not with respect to dealings{mu 'amalat]. Nur al-Idah ١٠٦.

* Muslim ٥٣٧.


BOOK H: PRAYER ١٧٩


To utter the salam with the intention of greeting others, nullifies the prayer even if
one does so forgetfully for the reason that it is speech.


iniLall yl st IIo,


Replying to someone's salam with the tongue or by shaking hands renders the
prayer void, even if one does so forgetfully. However, a gesture with the hand only,
without shaking hands or talking, is disliked according to all jurists, though the prayer
remains sound. The Prophet was reported to have performed this while praying.!
Jabir narrated: The messenger of Allah sent me for some job. Then I returned
and joined him as he was going(on a ride). Qutaibah said that he was performing
prayer while he rode. I greeted him and he gestured to me. When he completed
the prayer, he called me and said: "You greeted me just now while I was praying."
Qutaibah said: "The Prophet was heading eastbound when he was praying."


ASI Jatt


Excessive movement nullifies prayer, and this excessive movement is judged by
an onlooker in whom it appears in his view that one is not engaged in prayer.
Moreover, excessive movement is estimated as three continuous movements, such
that if one walks three continuous steps, the prayer is null and void. However, if
one separates the three movements by walking one step and then stopping, then
walking another step and pausing in an effort to conform with the rest of the lines,
the prayer remains sound. And it does not matter whether the movements are
intentional or inadvertent."


AL ye ptrall yt


Turning one's chest away from the direction of prayer. Note: turning one's chest
away from the direction of prayer[giéla]renders the prayer void if there is no
reason to do so. However, if there is a reason, such as a person who accidentally
broke his wudu and consequently turned from the qibla to make wudu so he
could return and continue the prayer. This is termed bina'. In this case, one is


pardoned.®
SB by ded CoE cp og Joly


Eating something from the outside of the mouth invalidates the prayer even if it is
small. The reason this is the case is because one is able to abstain from such a
thing.

Lath pli pay cilid Gul sly
Eating that which is between the teeth nullifies prayer if it is the size of a
chickpea.


" Muslim.
* ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim asSalkini ٢٩٧.
* AL Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٢٩٧.


١٨٠ BOOK I: PRAYER


"٣
Drinking is an annulling factor even if one raises his head to the sky whereby
water falls in his mouth.
eh ells


To clear the throat without a reason invalidates prayer. If however one has a
reason to do so, such as phlegm that prevents one from reciting, then it does not
invalidate the prayer.

ogdly My walt,


To groan, moan or sigh(or exhale loudly)invalidates the prayer.
I gh ee ٥٣ op Vena gl ery pe SK flay


Audible cries due to pain in the body or due to a calamity, such as a loss of a
friend is an annulling factor, but not the audible cries due to the thought of
Paradise or Hellfire because in this situation, one is in concentration.


Replying to a person who sneezes with the words, 'May Allah have mercy upon you'
renders the prayer void according to Muhammad and Zufar, though contrary to Abu


Yusuf.


Responding with the words, 'There is no deity except Allah' to someone who was
asking if Allah has a partner nullifies prayer because it amounts to speech.


db dadh sles Gl Re VL pw poy
Responding to bad news by saying 'To Allah we belong and to Allah we shall return' or
responding to good news with 'All praise be to Allah,' invalidates the prayer.
abl Slams gf dbl Y]J]٩G Carey
Responding to amazement by uttering 'TZhere is no-one worthy of worship except Allah'
or responding with 'Glory be to Allah' renders the prayer void.
ASI AE EIS ON tl ay Lad + gs Sy
Anything that is intended as a response nullifies prayer, such as the verse((O


Yahya, take hold of the book));' which was intended as a response for a person
who was asking for a book.


as ٣٩ AE els bts plé gc ole pee U٥ yy


" Maryam ١٢.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨١


When a person in the state of tayammum sees water and is able to use it, his
prayer is nullified. Additionally, when the period of wiping the khuf(footgear)is
complete, the prayer is annulled and the same rule applies to a person who takes
off his khuf in prayer.


٤١ oV lai


If an illiterate person(who neither reads nor writes)learns a verse while he is
engaged in prayer alone, then it stands nullified. This occurs by the illiterate
person recalling the verse after having forgotten it, or he memorised it
immediately after hearing it, or learnt it from an external source outside of the
prayer.'

١ ple ig sll Ulm ٥٥


Finding clothes to cover one's nakedness, renders the prayer void.
sgrly ESN SE ye ll iy


If a person who prays by nodding his head becomes able to bow and prostrate
normally during the prayer, his prayer stands nullified because he cannot
construct something strong upon something that began weak.


IP GUL Si,


The remembering of a missed prayer, one which is required to be performed in
order, nullifies the prayer. For example; if a person is engaged in the 'asr prayer
and then remembers he missed the dhuhr prayer, then the prayer is void and one
must make up the missed prayer followed by the current one. This is owing to the
order of prayer - which is wajib.


Lalo]calvar Y pe GSLs


If, during the prayer, the imam is replaced with someone not eligible for the
position of imam, prayer is nullified, such as an illiterate person who has no
knowledge as to the procedures of prayer and what it entails or someone insane.


pl ٣ pal ¢ pbs


The rising of the sun at dawn invalidates prayer. Accordingly, if the dawn prayer
is offered at this time, then it is not valid. This is due to the hadith mentioned
earlier that "Ugbah ibn 'Amir((God be pleased with him))said[The Messenger
forbade us from praying at three(particular)times]and mentioned, at the rising of
the sun.


cptgl gly ٥٥


" Maraky al-Falah ١٨٧.


١٨٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


When the sun moves from its peak at mid-day, both Eid prayers become invalid if
the prayer is being offered at such time.


inet! § pall ٥ y Syt>٥


When the 'asr prayer time enters on Friday, the Friday prayer is void and can no
longer be performed as the Friday assembly prayer. This may have been due to
the imam extending his speech or because they began late. If they begin and 'asr
time enters, the Friday prayer is void.


tt opal b yin
If a splint(or bandage)falls off a healed injury, the prayer is deemed nullified.
jadall pte Sly٥٤


When a person who is exempt[ma 'dhur]no longer suffers from his condition, the
prayer is void. In other words, when the reason of what caused one to be exempt
no longer exists, there his prayer becomes invalid. Note: ma 'dhur is the term used
to define a person who suffers from a chronic illness, such as continuous bleeding
from the nose or other illnesses that prevent one from maintaining wudu and
offering the prayer. This person is excused and permitted to pray even when the
condition is present in prayer. However, if such a person ceases to suffer from his
illness, the prayer is void.


onb anna lise Sadly
The prayer is void if one intentionally breaks his wudu or because his wudu


breaks due to the actions of another. For example, a fruit may have fallen from a
tree onto his head and blood flowed as a result.


Ostls LEW
Fainting or a fit of insanity in prayer renders it void.
pret sf ky ULL,


Discharging sperm due to staring at a sexual object or because of a sexual dream
while asleep nullifies the prayer. An example with respect to the first point is
looking at something inappropriate or at one's wife while praying.


Ugrele]٥ phy fle Wy dowre Ks SF da F BS fda tills Bro ٩ Sigel idles
If a man stands alongside a woman who arouses sexual desire - in a complete
prayer" that both are participating in(that is — they are joined under the same opening
takbir)in the same place with no screen between them, and the imam had
intended to lead her prayer in his intention at the opening takbir, then his prayer
is void. If the imam does not include her in his intention, then it is of no harm, for
her prayer is not permitted.


" A complete prayer is one that includes bowing and prostration. This therefore excludes
the funeral prayer.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٣


Note: muhadha(or closeness)is the standing of women next to men[with the
likelihood of touching]. If they are near each other for the performance of a pillar
according to Muhammad or for the equivalent time according to Abu Yusuf, in a
prayer that includes bowing and prostration; and they are participating in the
same prayer and the same place without a veil between them; and he did not
indicate to her to move back, then his prayer is nullified. For he is ordered to
direct her to move back in accordance with what Ibn Mas'ud related — saying,
"Move them back insofar as God has moved them behind."" If she does not move
back with his indication, then her prayer is nullified. The last of the conditions
that nullifies his prayer is; that the imam had intended to lead her prayer at the
opening Allahu akbar. If the imam does not include her in the intention, it is of
no harm since her prayer is not permitted, because without her inclusion,
participation is not established in the Hanafi view, with Zufar disagreeing.


Hence, the conditions are: ١)that the woman arouses sexual desire, ٢)that they be
standing near each other[muhadha], ٣)that it occur during the performance of a
pillar or the time it takes to perform a pillar, ٤)that it be in a complete prayer,
that is — one that includes bowing and prostration. This therefore excludes the
funeral prayer. ٥)that they are participating(and joined)in the same prayer(that
is, under the same opening Allahu akbar), ٦)that it be in the same place, ٧)there
is no screen or veil between them, ٨)the man did not indicate to her to move back
and ٩)the imam intended to lead her prayer at the opening Allahu akbar."


Oo, ٠, ٢%,
" ~~ "~~


A vital note for the following points. If a person inadvertently breaks wudu in prayer,
it is permitted for him to leave the prayer, renew wudu and return and continue
the same prayer he was performing. This is termed dina'. However, there are
certain actions that if performed on the way to renewing wudu or on the way
back, terminate the prayer and prevent the individual from continuing that very
prayer. An example of bina' is the following: The Apostle of Allah((God bless him
and grant him peace))began to lead the people in the dawn prayer. He then
signalled with his hand to 'Remain at your places." Then he entered his home after
which he returned while drops of water were coming down from his head and he
led them in prayer.' In addition, the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[A person who vomits, has a nose bleed, or emits madhi in his prayer
is to turn away and perform wudu, and he may then continue his prayer as long as
he has not spoken].' However, if one engages in certain actions, they would
prevent one from continuing the prayer he began and one would consequently be
required to begin a new prayer. These actions include:


+ pd gh Lge dah MV ASS aS asad yp cdl ain ٠٣)٩٦)٤h


" Abdur-Razaq fi Musanafih ٣/١٤٩.[Maraky al-Falah ١٨٨}.

; Maraky al-Falah ١٨٨.

* Abu Dawud ٢٣٣.

' Tbn Majah and Darqutni. Al-Zayla'i, vol. ٢, ٦٠.[Al-Hidayah, ١٤١].


١٨٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Uncovering the private area[awrah]after unintentionally breaking wudu in prayer
invalidates the prayer and prevents its continuation, even if it was necessary to
expose the private part in order to purify oneself. An example includes a female
who exposed her arms to perform wudu, since the arm is part of her private area.
Therefore, revealing the private part nullifies the prayer and prevents its
continuation.


+d WU lutte sf Lald wel ٥
Reciting Quran on the way to renewing wudu or when returning from it, nullifies


the prayer and one can no longer continue it.
Unie Sd Fe dey ٢S)vlad ٥ eRe


After inadvertently breaking wudu in prayer, to remain in the prayer for an
amount of time equivalent to performing a pillar, and his remaining is made
while he is conscious nullifies the prayer. This means that if one is aware he has
ruined wudu, but remained anyway, the prayer is void. Consequently, it is not
permitted for this person to go and perform wudu and return and continue the
prayer, rather, he must start a new one. If however, there was a reason for his
remainder in the prayer such as over-crowding or he waited until his nose stopped
bleeding, then he is permitted to continue the prayer after renewing wudu.


٠h)(cyte ce ASL)by J ole Gj ley


To move away from nearby water to other water invalidates the prayer if the
distance was greater than two rows.


ITN hey dowd ps amy oy


A person's exit from the mosque believing he has broken wudu renders his prayer
invalid. For example, water may have run from one's nose, but he believed it was
blood and as a result left the mosque. If this occurs, one is not permitted to
continue the prayer. If however, one did not leave the mosque, he is to complete
what remains of the prayer.'


dhe o po Gd serall Gj slty
Crossing the lines of prayer in a place other than a mosque, such as a house or the
like, believing oneself to have broken wudu, nullifies the prayer even if one has
not broken wudu.
dol I op OH A Oly Mehes gl ٢٥ ade Ol yt ati Ail aoe bbe ON gl ogo ye ne ail LUb ail nails

Moving away from one's position believing he is not in a state of wudu, or that the
time period of wiping the footgear has expired, or believing that he has neglected
one of the previous obligatory prayers(which requires the maintaining of order)or that he has filth on himself, nullifies the prayer even if this person does not exit


the mosque in all these cases, because the moving away from one's place
imagining these things, invalidate the prayer and prevent its continuation.


" Al-Hidayah ١٤٢.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٥
Siw Lai,


However, in all such cases with respect to the continuation of prayer(i.e. bina)it is
better to repeat the prayer from the start to avoid the disagreement between the
scholars such as the ruling of Imam Shafi'i(Allah be pleased with him}.


At this point, the rulings pertaining to the bina' of prayer are concluded.


o,
% ١},
~~


wl]ge Je oni


To help or instruct other than one's own imam nullifies the prayer. There is no
harm if one helps his own imam, but not others because this amounts to teaching
and instruction and is therefore a category of human speech. It is reported that
the Prophet recited Quran in prayer and left out a word. When he finished the
prayer he said, "Is Ubay not among you?" He answered; 'Yes.' The Prophet said,
"Did you make mention of it to me(in the prayer)?" He replied; 'I thought it was
annulled.' The Prophet returned, "Had it been abrogated, I would have informed
you." This shows that a person can help prompt his imam if he forgets the verse
or makes an error. Though not another imam. Ali(God be pleased with him)said,
"If the imam seeks to eat, then feed him." Meaning, if you see that he needs to be
prompted, then do so. It must be pointed out that the reason which caused the
Prophet to forget recitation in prayer and miss the prayer from its time on a few
occasions is because God allowed this to happen in order to set precedence for
mankind as to what they should do if they encounter the same circumstances. It
was not a direct mistake on the Prophet"s part."


Oe sf ٥ Hl JW iy Sy


To utter, "Allahu akbar" during prayer with the intention of changing to another
prayer nullifies the first one for the reason that one has ended what he began and
achieved what he has intended.' An example is a person who begins prayer alone
and then intends being a follower of an imam. AlHidayah states that if a person,
after praying one rak'ah of the dhuhr, commences the 'asr prayer or a
supererogatory prayer, then he has rendered his dhufr invalid due to the
commencement of another prayer. Another Hanifa text, Fat'k al-Kadir states: that
if one prays a rak'ah of the dhuhr prayer and then changes his intention to that of
the 'asr prayer, then the rak'ah performed for the dhuAr is void, since it is valid to
change from one intention to another. This is provided that one intends with his
heart not his tongue.'


Agrld shade pO po ghd! Lol Sal ole cae ١٥١


" Risalah an-Nafi'ah
? Maraky al-Falah ١٩٠.
٣ Fat'h al-Kadir.


١٨٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


If anyone of these mentioned nullification points occurs before adopting the last
sitting for the equivalent time of reciting the tashahhud, the prayer is deemed
void. Note: the duration time of the last sitting is the time it takes to recite the
tashahhud, though if it occurs after one has adopted the sitting for the equivalent
time it takes to recite the tashahhud, then the opted view is that the prayer is valid(as held by Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf). However, Abu Hanifa maintained
that it is void. The rule here is that coming out of the prayer based on the act of
the one praying is obligatory according to Abu Hanifa, while it is not according to
the two jurists. Therefore, the involvement of these acts at this stage(i¢. after the
tashahhud in the last sitting)is the same as their involvement during the prayer,
while the two jurists held it is like their involvement after the salams."


٨ SoH G٥ pablo Leyte


It is also invalid by extending the Aamza in the takbir, that is, the first letter in
Allahu akbar. This invalidates the prayer because the meaning of the words have
been severely altered due to the incorrect pronunciation. This point has been
mentioned earlier. See the chapter — How To Perform Prayer.


warns cy saat Y Leiel Jy


Reciting Quran that is not memorised; rather it is from the mus'haf or another
source, annuls the prayer. Abu Hanifa held that if the imam recites his Quran
from the mus'haf, his prayer is invalid. The two jurists maintained that it remains
intact because it is a form of worship.'


Wale Lae Qe gh iy gall GAS ae LE]I Sy olaly


To perform a pillar of prayer or having time to perform a pillar, during which
one's private area is uncovered or during which one has filth on his clothes,
nullifies prayer. If however one repels the filth straight after it falls leaving no
trace or one covers the private part immediately after it becomes exposed, then
the prayer remains sound. The filth in this text is that which is non-excusable and
prevents the validity of prayer.


wale]٤٣٥ ٤S sles d ٣٥ p sazall daly
Performing a pillar earlier than one's imam, and not being joined by the imam in


its performance, invalidates the prayer for the follower. For example: the follower
bowed and raised his head before the imam had bowed.


" Al-Hidayah ١٤٥.
? Al-Hidayah ١٥٢.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٧


If a latecomer joins the imam in the prostrations of forgetfulness after he had
already risen to make up the actions he missed, his prayer is void. For example:
the imam offers one of the final salams after which the latecomer rises. The imam
then remembers that prostrations of forgetfulness were required of him, so he
prostrates. If the follower now joins the imam after already rising, his prayer is
deemed invalid, because he disengaged from the imam.


or tl day La SS Se Bare ool tay pI» gl tl dale]pte y
If, after the last sitting(just before the final salams)one remembers he omitted a


prostration of the prayer, and as a result performs it, then the failure to repeat the
last sitting again nullifies his prayer.[Bb tal ٢٥ sale}pte


Failure to repeat a pillar after previously performing it while asleep invalidates


the prayer, because it is a condition to perform the actions in a conscious state.
Sgncll ole]Agigi"s


A loud burst of laughter by the imam(deliberate or not)nullifies the prayer even
for the one who arrived late to the prayer, for the prayer of the imam is connected
with those behind him.


DO op Dl te tall Cae y


Intentionally breaking wudu after reciting the tashahhud in the last sitting
invalidates the prayer. This means that if one intentionally breaks wudu after
adopting the last sitting for the equivalent time of tashahhud, then his prayer is
void according to Abu Hanifa because a section of the prayer has been ruined.
The two jurists held that it is valid.


ONS she ele! ay cel Cel gh aaa Lal sl ste cl Gb stl pe GAS)ols de pW,
EAS)٩ sil chad HVE Spe C٣


Giving the final salams of prayer after two rak'ahs believing oneself to be a
traveller or believing it to be the Friday prayer or tarawih, wherein reality, it is the
isha prayer, which is four rak'ahs, nullifies the prayer. This is also the case, if one
is new to Islam or emerges as an ignorant Muslim, and believes the obligatory
prayer is two rak'ahs when it is not, prayer is null and void because he has
intentionally given the final salams in a manner of ending the prayer before its
time.


°,
%

ee
fo


١٨٨ BOOK II: PRAYER





all uw Y(LS


That Which Does Not Nullify The Prayer


Whilst the following do not nullify prayer, their performance remains disliked.
Angi oS MI Jrall jh ٥)If the one praying looks at something written and understands it, even if it is
Quran or other, it does not invalidate the prayer.


BS Jat We Lad ٥٩٢ Sy Gad Gy Le jst sl
Eating food that is caught between the teeth with minimal mouth movement, and
is less than the size of a chick-pea does not nullify prayer, though is disliked.
JUN ST Ly ¢ Lae Ver yrs ad ye J ale ysl


If a person walks on the area where one makes prostration, it does not ruin the
prayer even though the one who crosses has committed a sin. And even if the
passer was a female, dog or donkey as the Prophet((Peace and blessing of God
upon him))said[Nothing interrupts prayer, but repulse as much as you can,
anyone who walks in front of you, for he is just a devil]."


dar Mayo Oly sdall ٣a yg dalla ٥ Sf oes ١. Vy


Prayer is not ruined if one looks with lust at the genitalia of his divorced wife and
this is the opted view on the matter, even if this lustful look establishes her return
to him. The prayer remains valid because there is little movement or action
involved. If however, he kisses or touches her, then his prayer is nullified. Note;
the same rule applies even if the woman is a stranger.


a dS hs
That Which Is Disliked In The Prayer
tO pay dae roel SS
Seventy seven things are disliked during prayer:
dideg ٤ yy ten Mae de lool SS
It is disliked to intentionally omit a wajib or sunna practice, such as fidgeting with
one's clothes or body, because one has neglected concentration which is the very


spirit of prayer; and due to Allah's saying:([Successful indeed are the believers,
those who humble themselves in their prayers]}."


٨ ogee YJ Lat! Ub,


" Abu Dawud ٧١٨.
? Muminun ١-٢.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٩


To turn over(or brush away)a rock is disliked, except if one does so once for
prostration. Jabir Ibn Abdul Bar asked the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))about the smoothing of a stone, upon which he answered[Once, and
if one left it, it is better for youl."
ele' and by
Cracking the fingers is disliked during prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[Do not crack the joints of the fingers whilst engaged in
prayer]."
YR
To interlace the fingers is contrary to the actions of prayer and is therefore


disliked. Ibn Umar((God be pleased with him))said[This is the prayer of those
who earn the anger of Allah].°


pac ٣
To pray with the hands on the hips is disapproved.
daw OLS,


Turning the head around by turning the neck is disliked. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[Allah, the Most High, continues to turn
favourably towards a servant while he is engaged in prayer as long as he does not
look to the side(by turning his neck), but if he does so, Allah turns from him].
The Prophet((Peace and blessing be upon him))also said[If only the person
praying knew who he is pleasing when he turns the head].°


LY,


Sitting in the style of ig'ah, such as a dog with the buttocks and arms on the
ground and the legs vertical and joined to the chest, is disliked.


Placing the forearms on the ground during prostration is disliked. The Prophet((Peace and blessing of God be upon him))is reported as saying[See that none of
you stretches out his forearms(on the ground)like a dog].°


lot doo poss

To roll up the sleeves off the arms is disapproved.

yal ad Jo ٥٤d jal ally shes
" Ahmad ٣/٣٠٠.
٢ Ibn Majah ٩٦٥.
٣ Abu Dawud ٩٨٨.
* Abu Dawud ٩٠٩
* At-Tabarani.


® Abu Dawud ٨٩٦.


١٩٠ BOOK II: PRAYER





To wear trousers only despite one's ability to wear a shirt is disliked. The basis for
the disapproval is the lack of recognition and appreciation. It is recommended for
a male to pray in all three items: i)underpants or cloth, ii)a shirt and iii)turban.
Whereas for females, it is recommended that they wear: i)a long shirt, ii)veil and
iii)a complete body wrapper.


٨ LoY L pA o٥٥


Returning the greeting of salam with a gesture, such as with the finger or hand, is
disliked during prayer.


we erly


To sit cross-legged in prayer with no reason is offensive because one has left the
sunna style of sitting.


٠ yaw pate y
Having a braid in one's hair during prayer is disapproved because the Prophet((Peace and blessings of God be upon him))passed by a man who was praying


with his hair braided, upon which he said[Leave your hair to make prostration
with you]."


Ub ye glen y Soy fall pal SLs pay slece Vly


I"tijar is disliked in prayer. /"tijar is to tie the head with a scarf or cloth leaving the
middle of the head uncovered.


ayy
Holding up the clothes with the hands is disliked in prayer. This is the pulling up
of the clothes or holding them up from behind when going into prostration. The


Prophet(may the peace and blessings of God be upon him)said, "We have been
ordered to prostrate on seven bones and not to tuck up the clothes and the hair.""


Aedes CFV care ٤d CU V ys dey


Sadl is disapproved. This is the placing of one's shaw]on the head and shoulders
and then letting the sides hang. Likewise, placing an item of clothing upon the
body in a way that the arms do not pass through the places designated for them,
such as a coat that one places on his back to hang. The Prophet((God grant him
blessings and peace))said[If one of you has two pieces of clothes, he should pray
in them; if he has a single cloth, he should use it as a wrapper and should not
hang it upon his shoulders like the Jews].°


sale Je ecle orb y as adn! OF Og Jory


" Tabarani ٩/٢٦٧.
? Bukhari ٨١٠.
٣ Abu Dawud ٦٣٥.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩١


It is disliked to tuck up clothes under the right armpit and fling the sides of the
clothes over the left shoulder or vice versa, for the reason that it is desirable for
both shoulders to be covered and because one will be preoccupied with tucking
up the clothes.


ell Je Bn J aol yall,
Reciting Quran in a state other than standing is disliked, such as to finish reciting
the Quran in the bowing posture.
Eset § Js Gas NU],
To lengthen the first rak'ah in a voluntary prayer is disliked.
cl gliall ee J Ly fe S٥١ fe gai


Lengthening the second rak'ah over the first one in all prayers, be they obligatory
or voluntary, is disliked.


UF Al cpp taal y ٤٠S)S٣٥ SI Sy
Repeating the same surah in one rak'ah of an obligatory prayer is disapproved.
The same applies to one who repeats the same surah in both the rak'ahs provided
he does so intentionally and is able to recite another surah from memory. If


however, one does not know another surah, then it is wajib for him to read it so
that he fulfils the requirement of joining another surah to the Fatiha."
Ul Jl Gy ٨p tel By

It is disliked to recite a surah and then reverse the order of Quran by reciting
another surah which precedes the one previously read. This means, it is sunna for
the individual to read the Quran in its order of placement, and the first surah
after the Fatiha is the a/-Bagarah and the last is an-Nas. Accordingly, if one reads a
surah which comes before the one previously read, it is disliked because Ibn
Mas'ud((God be pleased with him))said[Whoever recites the Quran in reverse,


then he is in reverse]."
٠S)GALS iy gy Ce iy ya ahaa


It is disliked to recite a surah, then skip the next surah, and instead recite the one
that comes after that. For example; to recite surah al-Ikhlas in the first rak'ah and
then recite surah an-Nas in the second thereby skipping surah al-Falaq.


wok oy


Intentionally smelling perfume is not from the actions of prayer and is contrary to
the nature of prayer, which is focus and concentration.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٩٩.
? AbBaihagi ٢/٤٣٣.


١٩٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


sp Nip tm yp Ha geaty ٣s


Fanning oneself with one's clothes or with a fan once or twice is disapproved
because it is contrary to concentration, even if the movement is minimal.


opty rprotl J UL! ٦ ley sla gel pts


Turning away the fingers of the hands and toes of the feet from the direction of
prayer during prostration and during other positions where it is possible to direct
them at the qibla is disliked, such as when in tashahhud and the hands are placed
on the thighs.


CSM GSS Se outs ty S٥٥


Neglecting to place the hands on the knees during the bowing is disapproved.
This is also the case, if one does not place the hands on the thighs between the
two prostrations, or does not place the right hand over the left whilst standing.


AS pare y SSIs


Yawning and closing the eyes in prayer is disliked. The Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[If one of you stands in prayer, he should not shut his
eyes}." Also, Abu Hurairah((God be pleased with him))reported the Prophet((God grant him blessings and peace))saying[Yawning is from Satan and if
anyone of you yawns, he should check his yawning as much as possible, for if
anyone of you(during the act of yawning)should say 'ha', Satan will laugh at
him]."
lh Ulertos

Raising the eyes to the sky is disliked in prayer. The Prophet((May Allah bestow
blessings and peace upon him))said["What is wrong with those people who look(upwards)toward the sky in prayer.' He then said sternly, "They should stop
doing that; otherwise their sight will be snatched away."].'


gaells
Stretching the body in prayer is disliked because it is from sluggishness and


laziness.
aalt Jaslly
Minimal movement that is incompatible with prayer is disliked.
dads el Lhaty Yh y Ls ict,


" Tabarani ٢/٣٥٦.
? Bukhari ٣٢٨٩.
* Bukhari ٧٥٠.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩٣


Taking an ant and killing it is disapproved without a reason. Though if it bites, it
is not disliked. Umar Ibn al-Khattab((God be pleased with him))would kill the
ant in prayer until its blood appeared on his hand." Also, to cover the face and
mouth during prayer is disliked.


gnedl bol A are ond Srgt oss


Placing something in the mouth that prevents the recitation of Quran is disliked,
such as money or tissue. If however, it is something that melts, it nullifies prayer'


ale ١٣٥ Je > ynHIly


Prostration on the wrapping of the turban without having a reason such as intense
heat or frost on the ground, is disliked. Note: if the wrapping is around the
forehead and is prostrated on, it is valid for the reason that a covering between
the forehead and ground does not prevent the validity of prostration.'


pe Sey
To prostrate on a picture that resembles living beings is disapproved.
GNU jie Wigs Je Las Yl,


To prostrate using only the forehead without having a valid reason with the nose
is disliked since it is wajib to place the nose unless one has a reason.


Geb! ٣ sMuchly
To pray on a road that people use is disliked.
ctl dss eltts


To pray in a washroom or in the vicinity where a person relieves himself such as a
communal toilet is detested. In the time of the Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))there were areas where people went to relieve their need known as a
communal toilet area or dunghill. Note: the term washroom means a place of
washing only that does not have a toilet in it.


ole WH pall ٢ rhy onadl Gy


Prayer at graveyards is detested. Ibn Umar said[The Prophet forbade the
observance of prayer in seven places: a dunghill, a slaughter house, a graveyard,
the middle of the path, a bathroom and a watering place where camels drink
water and sit, and upon the(roof)of the ka'bah].' Additionally, to pray on land
without the permission of its owner is disliked.


"la as-Sunan ٥/١٥١.

? Maraky al-Falah ٢٠١.
٣ Maraky al Falah ٢٠١.
* Ibn Majah ٧٤٦.


١٩٤ BOOK II: PRAYER





dubs pp ley


To pray within a short proximity of filth is disliked since we are ordered to


distance ourselves from filth and its place.
geal hte We Wiles


To resist the urge of urination or defecation in prayer or to resist the urge of
breaking wind is disapproved. The Prophet((Peace and blessings of God be upon
him))said[It is not permissible for a man who believes in Allah and the last day
to perform the prayer while he is feeling the call of nature until he becomes
light].


Vprbad Os Vi ye del Ped SO gb GE ١B]VJ Sule pe Lobes ary


To pray with excusable filth upon one's clothes or body is disliked unless one fears
he will miss the prayer time or the congregational prayer, because to miss the
obligatory prayer from its time is unlawful and to offer the prayer in congregation
is an established sunna at least, though if one does not fear this, then it is
preferable to remove the filth. Note: this type of filth is that which does not
prevent the prayer from being valid.


C
VIN OU Jrtadly ~ U,


my ٢ op
Prayer in work clothes that are not shielded from general dirt is disliked.
Casts Pid VI LG ٢Ss


To pray with the head uncovered is disapproved except if one does so out of
humility and humbleness to God.


CAD Jes Sl! fats bey dl fons plab i parwry


Offering the prayer in the presence of food that one has desire for, is disliked on
the basis of distraction. Furthermore, anything that distracts the mind and
reduces concentration is disliked.


ASL esl y SV ses


To count the verses of Quran on the hand as well as the éasbth is disapproved,
though Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf held that it is not disliked. Regardless
of these different views, if one counts with the tongue, prayer is void according to
all jurists.


omy po Vi gl Ks Je gl ol pall Ged lis


pe et ee
" Abu Dawud ٩١.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩٥


It is disliked for the imam to stand alone in the mihrab(prayer-niche)or to stand
alone on a raised platform or higher ground, the reason being that it resembles
the Jews and Christians in that their leader is specified in a special place by
himself. Ibn Mas'ud((God be pleased with him))said[The Prophet forbade the
imam from elevating himself upon something, and the people are following]."


ie Ji ine wile lil


In a congregational prayer, if there is room in a row in front, then to stand behind
it, is disliked. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Allah and
His Angels invoke blessings on those who arrange the rows(in prayer)in a
compact form and he who fills some space in the rows, Allah elevates him a
degree on that account.'


IN ٥ pre ٠٩S NV ٣)po Shing shaw oy shaile gl ol GOK dy pla ios it,
٠٢٣٦٣ sl pl Iie pat
To wear clothes that have pictures of living things are disliked to offer prayer in.
This is also the case if there are pictures suspended above or behind one's head,
or between one's hands on the floor. Likewise being near a picture during prayer
is disliked, except if it is tiny, such as a dirham which gives resemblance of a king


or the head of the picture is missing, for nothing can be worshipped without a
head, or the picture resembles objects without a soul, such as an ocean.


PAPO sh ٥٩٥ oe Dy OK Oly


To pray while there is a hot pot or brazier containing coal right in front of the
person praying is disliked because it resembles those who worship fire.


clips ol
To pray directly in front of a group of people who are sleeping is disapproved for


fear of laughing or making eye contact that would cause one to be shy or lose
concentration. If however this was not the case, then there is no dislike. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))narrated that[The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))used to offer prayer while I used to sleep across in his bed in front of
him, and then, when he wanted to pray witr, he would wake me up and I would
pray witr]."
Beall SHH So pas Vly oe Agel ey

To wipe away dirt from the forehead that will not affect one during the prayer, is
disliked because it is a form of fidgeting when there is no reason to do so. This is


also the case with wiping away sweat. If however, these things will cause harm,
then there is no objection.


" Ibn Hajar, Takhlis al-Habir ٢/٤٣.
? Ibn Majah ٩٩٥.
٣ Bukhari ٥١٢.


١٩٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


pny ale att fo Nb ol yo sends IVs a Vine ess


Reciting none other than one particular surah is disliked, unless one does so to
ease the matter or to imitate the recitation of the Prophet to receive blessings((God bless him and grant him peace)).


pall sy cy ٤b ٥٩M ly fe Gap SEIS Ss


It is disliked if one neglects to place a barrier(screen)when offering the prayer in
a place where someone is likely to pass in front of him. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[When anyone of you prays, he should pray
toward the barrier, should stand close to it and should not allow anyone to pass in
front of him]."


£٣٩٧*(٧b ١٣)dual ge Oy SUI aiay ٣ pol SLI
Placing A Barrier(Screen)And Preventing A Passer. Crossing.
CoM Tale Belial ٦١٣ Spb ٠ S٥٦ fee ٥ pay OT I nn Cony» ob ١٣)If the person intending prayer believes that someone will pass in front of him,
then it is recommended for him to insert a barrier the height of an arm's length
or more into the ground with the thickness equivalent to a finger.


Jae Ug}danas Vy tao le sol fo glad ys gr ob ol ott,


The sunna is to stand close to the barrier; and to place it at either side of the
forehead and not face it directly, but rather be either a little to the right or left of
it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[When one of you
prays facing a barrier, he should keep close to it, and not let the devil interrupt his
prayer]."

JOU Jbe ٥ pl Nig Vgb Uae Bs ana bd J Ly


If there is nothing available to place as a barrier, then one is to draw a
perpendicular line in front of him, while some scholars maintain that he is to
draw the shape of a crescent horizontally, and if the ground is hard, then one is to
put something in front of him in a straight line. Abu Hurairah reported the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))as saying[When one of you prays,
he should put something in front of his face, and if he cannot, he should set up his
staff; but if he has no staff, he should draw a line; then what passes in front of him
will not harm him].' According to Ahmad Ibn Hanbal, it should be in the form of
a semi circle.


" Muslim ٥٠٥.
٢ Abu Dawud ٦٩٥.
٣ Ibn Majah ٩٤٣.


BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩°


JU is Si cmedly


It is recommended whether or not one has placed a barrier, not to drive back ¢
person who tries to pass through the area of prostration, for prayer is based upon
tranquillity and calm.


let pablo Sy eet EYL ands ary y


If someone tries to pass in front of the person praying, he is permitted to drive
him back with gestures of the head, eyes, or something other than this, or with
tasbih, such as saying, 'Glory be to Allah', though it is disliked to perform both
because one of the acts suffices. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))gestured with the children of Umm Salama.


iol DLS palll ab » dnd y
A male is permitted to drive back those who try to pass, by elevating his voice
when reciting Quran.
BOY Ue pe FV ٥ pl US trie Jo fol ole gles jataal ١ LEYL anit

Females are to ward off passers with gestures or with the clapping of their hands,

the top part of the right hand onto the inside palm of the left hand. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The men should say 'Glory be
to Allah'{Subhan Allah}and the women should clap];? however, the women are not
to raise their voice, not in recitation or in tasbih because their voices are fitna(temptation).

Gi dy cls Jaslly WIS aL Sy peoyy ey lll fle Y,


The one praying is not to inflict physical violence upon the one trying to pass.
And with respect to what is related in the hadith of the Prophet((Peace be upon
him))who said[When one of you prays, he should not let anyone pass in front of
him; he should remove him away(by force)as far as possible, but if he refuses, he
should fight him for he is only a devil];' this was uttered by the Prophet at a time
when one was still permitted to make actions in prayer, such as shaking hands for
salam, but indeed such actions have been annulled which means the 'hostile'
section of the hadith is also annulled.


"Tbn Majah ٩٤٨.
? Bukhari.
٣ Abu Dawud ٦٩٧


١٩٨ BOOK II: PRAYER





pa SY ks
That Which Is Not Disliked In Prayer
bu Sse SY
To tie something around the waist, such as a belt or something similar is not
disliked.
aS pw frets ١ Ifo pny ee Ws Vy


It is not disliked to carry a sword or something similar during prayer provided it
does not distract one with its movement.


shall fe aid y arp Gur SEs! ese Vy


Placing the hands in the two openings at the front of the traditional shirt or in the
split of the openings is not disliked, and this is the preferred view for it does not


take away from one's concentration.


There is no dislike if there is a Quran in front of the person praying or a sword
hanging in front of him, because neither of them is worshipped. Allah said[When
you(O Messenger)are with them, and stand to lead them in prayer, let one party
of them stand up with you(in prayer)taking their arms with them]."


cell le cl ol aad gl ode te ٤b ol


Praying towards the back of a person who is talking is not disliked because Ibn
Umar((God be pleased with him))on occasions used to take Nafi' as a barrier on
his journeys.' Likewise, praying towards a candle or lamp is not disapproved, and
this the most sound view because it does not resemble those who worship the fire.


Ugle tree dp sliai db bly Jeo yroly


To prostrate on carpet that has pictures on it resembling living beings, is of no
harm provided one does not perform the prostration on the pictures.


AE OAL ٦ GI ply OL pa Jy LT GLE Ute b> Jy


Killing a snake or scorpion fearing they may cause harm, even if it takes multiple
strikes to kill them and during which one skews from the direction of prayer, is
not disliked, and this is the most evident view on the matter. This is specifically
for one who feared harm. If one had no fear and yet killed them with a lot of
movement, there is disagreement if the prayer is nullified or not.


CS pI Getnme jah WS ag pain bl Vy


" An-Nisa ١٠٢.
? Ibn Abi Shaybah, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢/٩٦.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٩٩


There is no harm if one shakes his clothes to prevent them from sticking to his
body in the bowing posture.


Beall oye aba she po ١a! FL il LE Vy Beall ope FL all dey a Pl A oe eee eee Vy
There is no objection if one wipes his forehead from dirt or grass after the prayer


is complete. And neither is it disliked prior to its completion if it disturbs one's
concentration in prayer or could potentially harm him.


am Ml pF nd cp ee bye ALY,


If one looks(right or left)through the corner of his eyes without turning the face,
it is not disliked. However, it is better to omit it because it is from the conduct of
prayer to look at the area of prostration.


at le fe sh NN Jo all Paiy ٢ Uy boty ٢ dll Jo DML LLY,


There is no harm if one prays on a mattress, carpet or board provided the head
meets the firmness of the ground. However, the best prayer is on the ground or on
that which the earth produces such as grass and straw.


Sed op ASM G٥)pS SS LY,


There is no harm if one repeats the same surah in two rak'ahs of a voluntary
prayer, i.e. to read it once in the first rak'ah and repeat it again in the second
rak'ah of the prayer.


Oo aM o%
"e "se "ee


٣ poy ot ley aall abd ٤ |S


When Is It Necessary |Wajib| To Cut Off Prayer
And When It Is Permitted


aryl dol lie Y foal ygle Glaeal Dall abs


It is wajib to cut off prayer, even though it is an obligatory one if there are
desperate calls for help from someone. Though not with the normal calls of a
parent because to discontinue prayer is only permitted when there is a need.
Imam at-Tahawi held this view for the obligatory prayer. However, with respect to
voluntary prayer, if one of the parents knows that their child is engaged in prayer
and he is called, then there is no harm in not responding to the call. Though if
both are unaware about one's engagement in prayer, then he is to answer them.!


ogrnty td seed ٥٢٥ Be al ck fe Sgt coed gly Ayo gal be Gp Upabad ٥ oe


It is permissible to cut off prayer, even though it is an obligatory one, if there is a
thief who is stealing anything equivalent to a dirham, even if the property belongs
to someone else or because one fears a wolf or something like it is about to attack
the sheep, or fears that a blind man may fall into a well or hole. Note: If the one


" Maraky al-Falah ٢١٤.


٢٠٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


observing prayer believes that a blind man may fall in a hole, it becomes wajib to
disengage prayer and attend to him. In this case, the person praying has a duty of
care towards this person.


AI fe fii y Aral La atly ol i Vy USI ys ala Cale HL,
It is wajib for the midwife(or nurse)to cut off prayer if she fears the death of a


child or its mother. If she has not started the prayer, then there is no harm in
delaying the prayer and attending to the child or mother.


ab gM OG a)le ٥s jal plas of po pall oe GE ١)BLU LS,
This is also the case if a traveller fears from a thief, highway robber, or fears from


an animal, in that it is permitted to delay the obligatory prayer of that time until it
is safe.


Tradl jb oS


The Ruling Of One Who Neglects Prayer


Lao Lb Vasarely ame ١٣١ Y!


The one who intentionally neglects prayer due to laziness or idleness, is to be
beaten harshly until blood flows from his body and is then imprisoned during
which he is subject to physical pain, until he performs his prayers or dies in
confinement. This ruling also applies for one who does not fast Ramadan due to
laziness, i.e. he is beaten and imprisoned. However, one is not to be killed for
leaving prayer or fasting due to idleness, unless he rejects the belief that prayer
and Ramadan are obligatory or unless he belittles either one of them.


oO, o%
ee "~~ "~~


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٠١


PAL


The Chapter Of Witr


des OES SW pry rly Zyl


The prayer of witr is necessary[wajib]. This was the ruling held by Imam Abu
Hanifa, and it is three rak'ahs with one pair of finishing salams only in the last
rak'ah. That is, the three rak'ahs are not separated from each other through
salams. A narration from Ibn Mas'ud, Ubay ibn Ka''b, A'isha and Umm Salam
reports that the Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))would
perform witr consisting of three rak'ahs, and would not give salam except at the
end of the three." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said(The
witr is a duty, so he who does not observe it does not belong to us; the witr is a
duty, so he who does not observe it does not belong to us; the witr is a duty, so he
who does not observe it does not belong to us].? In addition, the one who denies
the validity of this prayer is not deemed an unbeliever as its requirement has been
established through the sunna. It is performed at the time of 'isha, therefore its
adhan and igama are deemed sufficient for it.*


Abu Yusuf and Muhammad held the witr as sunna on the basis of the Prophet's
saying, "Three is prescribed for me and has not been written upon you.""
However, according to the two companions, it is of the highest levels with respect
to the sunan, to the extent that it is not permitted seated with the ability to stand
and neither upon one's beast without an excuse. Moreover, the witr is to made up
as gada if missed as mentioned in al-Mahit.°


ges)fe paring ae Ody ply le ley ty yey EW aS,[SGI dY


In each rak'ah of the witr prayer, it is waytb to recite the Fatiha and a surah. One
is also required to adopt the sitting posture at the end of the second rak'ah and
recite only the tashahhud.


And one is not to recite the opening glorification of prayer when standing for the
third rak'ah because one is not beginning another prayer.


" Extracted by Ibn Abu Ya'la from Ibn Mas'ud that the Prophet would recite in the first
rak'ah of the witr "Sabih Isma Rabbikal A'la," and in the second rak'ah "Qul Ya Ayyuhal
Kaftrun," and in the third rak'ah "Qui huwallaku Ahad." Hadith Ubay is reported in the
Musnad of Ahmad ٥/١٢٣, Nasai ٣/٢٣٥ and Ibn Majah ١١٨٢. The hadith of A'isha is
reported in Al-Mustadrak, ١/٣٠٤ and is related by Ahmad in his Musnad ١/١٥٥-١٥٦ and
Nasai in Mujtaba Min as-Sunan ٣/٢٣٤, ١٦٩٨. Al-Hakim said that the hadith is sound
meeting the conditions of Bukhari and Muslim.[Al-Ikhtiyar ٨٥].

* Abu Dawud, ١٤١٤. Al-Hakim confirmed the authenticity of this hadith.

٣ Maraky al-Falah ٢١٦ / Al-Hidaya ١٥٩.

* Alkhtiyar ٨٥

> AL-khtiyar ٨٤-٨٥.


٢٠٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER


TN ae GG SM SB Cay ١S cb aad ld Gy by gd Ey Mal ٣ oe FDL


After the recitation of the surah in the third rak'ah, one is to raise his hands to the
level of the ears and say, "Allahu akbar" and thereafter supplicate while standing
before bowing, and this is to be performed as described everyday throughout the
year. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Would perform qunut
in the witr before ruku];" and according to Abu Hanifa one is to place the right
hand over the left hand, whereas Abu Yusuf held, that one should raise the hands
as Ibn Mas'ud would raise them with the palms facing the sky. In addition, Imam
Shafi"i held that one should not supplicate qunut in the witr prayer except in the
second half of the month of Ramadan and held that the qunut is after the bowing


posture."
FP po GRY


One is not to utter the qunut(supplication)except in the witr. Imam Shafi'i held
that one is not to utter the qunut in the witr prayer except in the second half of
Ramadan, though he held that it is to be uttered in the dawn prayer throughout
the year. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))uttered the qunut for
one month in the fajr prayer invoking Allah to punish the tribes of Ril and
Dhakwan.' This was because the Prophet((Peace and blessings of God be upon
him))was betrayed which led to seventy Muslims being slain upon which he
supplicated in the dawn prayer. Imam Abu Jafar at-Tahawi said that one should
not recite the qunut in the dawn prayer unless a calamity has transpired, in which
case there is no harm. If the qunut is made in the dawn prayer, it is performed
after the bowing as the Prophet performed.


With regards to reciting gunut in all the prayers in the event of a calamity upon the Muslims,
only Imam Shafi held this view. Though Imam Ibn Abidin held that in the event of a
calamity, the imam is to recite the qunut in the audible prayers only and this ts the view held
by Imam Ahmad and Imam Thawri."


SS ٩ th Sy Ud yg Day Hedges y Hrs Lif Ql: Spey ob yay ele atl oles or pills
domes fai Ny tei SLY GU! SD ret oe Spey lt Sa Vy SS cals dT de pty Hele
Ally pol Cts Le dbl roy Gone USL ILI thle Of thle ٢٥٥ they gop dinsy gad ULI


UNS oo gill as ٥ gli ye hey





" An-Nasai ١٦٩٨

? Maraky al-Falah ٢١٧.
* Bukhari ١٠٠٣

; Maraky al-Falah ٢١٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٠٣


Be meaning of qunut is supplication, and it is to say[O Allah we ask Your help,

our forgiveness and Your guidance. In You we belicve, on You we rely, You we Praise with
leah apa pee You and not ungrateful, and disown, abandon him who
commits outrages against You. O Allah, You alone do we worship, to You we pray and
prostrate. You we strive for and hasten to obey, hoping for Your Mercy and fearing Your
punishment. Truly, Your earnest punishment shall overtake the unbelievers, and may the peace
and blessings be upon Muhammad, our Prophet and his family], and the follower is to
recite the qunut like the imam.


Vs dat Shy ane Gye ey gals dilarsciey ٩h SG pa le de lel GLY ¢ ٥ ١٥١
Oe DNs ٦ ule
If the imam begins to recite an extra supplication after the first one, Imam Abu
Yusuf said, "Zhe follower is to join the imam and recite the supplication with him"
whereas Imam Muhammad said, "The follower is not to join the imam, but rather should
say, 'Amin' only."
cule ope ju Vy Coly p SLY ail thle Ai Vy a Hb]ah ٥ y Chel(i
pny arcs aly dat Ld fo ail fro y ILS y by SLs


The extra supplication is[O Allah guide us along with those You have guided, pardon us
along with those You have pardoned, be an ally to us along with those whom You are an ally
to and bless for us that which You have bestowed. Protect us from the devil. You have decreed
for verily You decree and none can decree over You. For surely, he whom You show allegiance
to is never abased and he whom You take as an enemy is never honoured and might. O our
Lord, Blessed and Exalted are You, and may the peace and blessings be upon Muhammad
and his family and his Companions}.
te BEV hy BI GLI, help OW SD del Ql Spo gl td ey
obobook sow oles,


Whoever does not know the qunut is to say,[O Allah, forgive me]three times or[Our
Lord, give us good in this life and good in the hereafter and keep us away from the torment of
the fire]or[O Lord, O Lord, O Lord].

doce bade feng ABM GUS Le ٥ Sane Oi eeall G Cok ya GSI NBL


If one follows an imam who recites the qunut in the dawn prayer, he is to perform
it with the imam silently according to the most evident view and keep his hands
down by his sides.


der Y ESM op eed; Grd cd dy cre Ver i Jes te Sis FN Gol ٥ NS y
SA abe ٣٦ os ill Ny)ped try £٩٥


٢٠٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


If one does not remember to say the qunut in the third rak'ah of the witr and then
remembers it during the bowing or when rising from it, he is not to say it, but
rather should leave it and make the prostrations of forgetfulness. If however one
utters the qunut after raising his head from the bow, he is not to repeat the bow,
but must perform the prostrations of forgetfulness for moving the qunut from its
original position and delaying a necessary action.


dale]sli ٦ ٩S Mm gh Beg ad ae yt fF glo pill ael ٥ ops acd F١٣٥ LG LYM AS)٥٥


If the imam bows before the follower completes his qunut or the imam bows
before the follower even begins it, then the follower is to leave it and join the
imam if he fears that he will miss the bowing with the imam. If on the other hand,
he does not fear he will miss the imam in the bowing, then he is to supplicate and
then join the imam if possible.


an Vhs ٦٩٥ SG pM Slee Slo}Sly Goyal LYS yy


If the imam does not utter the qunut, then the followers should, provided it is
possible to join the imam in the bowing. If it is not possible, then the follower is to
disregard the qunut and join the imam.


٤s Sm led GLE pa WS pte O١٥ Fpl ope WU ٦ ٥)FPLYI Aol I,


If a latecomer to the group prayer catches the imam in the third rak'ah of the witr
prayer, then he is regarded as having caught the qunut in the legal sense; meaning
even though he missed the qunut, the fact that he caught the third rak'ah is legally
ruled as having caught the qunut. Accordingly, he is not to make up the qunut
when he stands to perform the actions he missed with the imam.


ati OLary ٣ Slow Sys


It is recommended that the witr be prayed in congregation only in the month of
Ramadan, which is what the majority maintain, whereas outside of Ramadan it is
better to pray the witr alone. However, Shams al-a-Imma said regarding witr outside
of Ramadan that if there is only one or two followers with the imam, there is no
dislike because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would wake
A'ishah and she would perform witr with the him.


٦ eeenall ٢ SE OG htt SUI oT lo pte alal oy prailolan, gues ares
WAH ont COS


The witr prayer in congregation in the month of Ramadan is superior than to
pray it alone at the end of the night, because when it is permitted to pray as a
group it is superior and greater. Umar(Allah be pleased with him)would perform
witr in congregation, and this is the most sound opinion as stated by Imam
Qadikhan. Though other scholars maintain that the opposite is the soundest view.


o


e ote


%P %"


e
o,
"


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٠٥


Jelly
Supererogatory Prayer |Nawafil]The author used the term nawafil and not sunan given that it is more common
and in view of the fact that all sunna is deemed nafl, though not vice versa.
Linguistically, nafl means extra, and legally, it is actions that are not obligatory,
not wajib and not sunna. And this is synonymous with the term voluntary or
optional, which is an act of worship performed by a person without being required
to do so.


BAS fe de ope
The emphasized sunan are:
The two rak'ahs before the dawn prayer(fajr), and this is one of the most
emphasized sunna, to the degree that Abu Hanifa said, "If one prays it while
sitting without a reason, it is not permitted." Abu Hanifa relied on the words of


the Prophet((Peace and blessings be upon him))[Do not omit them(the rak'ahs of
dawn)even if you are driven away by horses]."


Al JS erly ole ary oll tery bill de ObaS ٥


The two rak'ahs after the noon prayer(dhuhr), after the sunset prayer(maghrib),
after the nightfall prayer('sha), and the four rak'ahs before the noon prayer(dhuhr). The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[A person who
persists in praying twelve rak'ahs in a day and night, for him God will build a
house in heaven].°

dali Ladary deat! ١٥٥


Equally, the four rak'ahs before and after the Friday prayer finishing them with
salams in the last rak'ah are emphasized sunan. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased with
him))reported that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would
perform four before the Friday prayer and Abu Hurairah reported that the
Prophet said((After Jumu'a, you should perform four rak'ahs)).*


ll dey ceeds clinlly panll Jo esd ois


The recommended sunan are the four rak'ahs before the 'asr and the four before
and after the 'sha prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Would offer four rak'ahs before 'isha and four rak'ahs after 'isha upon which he


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٢٥.
? Abu Dawud ١٢٥٣


٣ Recorded by the Imam's of sound compilation except Bukhari. Al-Zayla'i, vol. ٢,١٣٧- ٣٨.
* Ibn Majah ١١٢٩, ١١٣٢.


٢٠٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





would rest).' Likewise, the six rak'ahs after the maghrib prayer are recommended
sunan as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[He who prayed
six rak'ahs after the maghrib prayer would be made equivalent to the worship of
twelve years].'


٤٢ Gry CEE cle y SUG GL Ys apts fo su jll Lel I oy Ug gS pares


When performing an emphasized sunna prayer which is four rak'ahs, one is to
limit the first sitting to the tashahhud only, and when one stands for the third
rak'ah, he is not to repeat the opening supplication(istftah),' contrary to a
voluntary prayer that consists of four rak'ahs, for verily in a four rak'ah voluntary
prayer, one is to recite the opening supplication and fa awwudh in the third rak'ah.
This is not the case with an emphasized sunna prayer.


٢ AN Ugad y Bday Be oslo LEN loc ene ba ol PY le dy eas oe ASI MIE Jo Ls
la ol» ltt


If one offers a voluntary prayer consisting of more than two rak'ahs(such as four)and does not sit for tashahhud except at the end, the prayer is deemed valid
because it has integrated as one prayer that included a compulsory sitting at the
end. Note: the validation of this prayer is based on the principle of Istihsan.
Istihsan literally means to approve or to deem something preferable. In its juristic
sense, Istihsan is a method of exercising personal opinion in order to avoid any
rigidity that might result from the literal enforcement of the existing law.


Melb tes al fe dl Se Sy
It is disliked to pray more than four rak'ahs of voluntary prayer in the daytime


with only one(pair)of salams. Meaning, four should be the maximum number of
rak'ahs a person prays; thereafter it is recommended to offer the finishing salams.
To offer more with only a single pair of salams at the end is disliked. Hence, one


pair of salams is to separate every four rak"ahs of voluntary day prayer.
Wd ole des
It is disliked to pray more than eight rak'ahs of voluntary prayer in the night with


only one(pair)of salams. Meaning, one pair of salams is to separate every eight
rak'ahs of voluntary prayer at night, otherwise, it is disliked.


Fi oy ote te LUNG pai Lacey die Glace pls ed Lai


The best practice in the day and night with respect to voluntary prayer is to
perform them in fours according to Abu Hanifa. A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))said that the Prophet would offer four rak'ahs, do not ask about their





" Abu Dawud, the Book of Prayer.

* Ibn Majah ١٣٧٤.

* This is also referred to as the opening praise or glorification[thana'], which is read for the
commencement of all prayers.


BOOK Hi: PRAYER ٢٠٧


excellence and length(since they were inimitable in perfection and length). He(secondly)would offer four rak'ahs, do not ask about their excellence and length."
There is also another narration that the Prophet was diligent in performing the
mid-morning |duha]as four rak'ahs and diligent in performing four at night-time].'
Although Imams Abu Yusuf and Muhammad held that the best practice in the
day is to perform voluntary prayer in fours' as Abu Hanifa held, whereas the best
practice at night is to perform them in pairs, and the fatwa issued is in accordance
with this. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The night vigil
prayer is offered as two rak'ahs followed by two rak'ahs].'


etl de cp jail LU,


Voluntary prayer at night particularly in the last third, is superior to voluntary
prayer in the day, since it entails greater difficulty and due to the saying of Allah:
"They forsake their beds of sleep, the while they call on their Lord, in fear and


hope: and spend(in charity)out of the sustenance which We have bestowed on
them."


dgredli SS oe Col ball J shy


To prolong the standing(in the night or day prayer)is better than performing a
large number of prostrations. Note: a person achieves a large number of
prostrations by praying more rak'ahs. Though if one lengthens his standing(i.e.
recitation)instead of this, it is the most excellent practice. The Holy Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked as to which prayer is the most
excellent one? He answered, "The prayer containing prolonged qunut."" The
scholars of hadith have interpreted qunut as standing in prayer. Thus, lengthy
recitation of Quran is the best prayer.°


JU tloly wall Bey domi ae ٣


Greeting The Mosque(Tahiyyah)The Prayer Of The Forenoon(Duha)And Night Vigil Prayers.


FIN NS aS p dallas ٥


It is sunna to greet the mosque with two rak'ahs of prayer before sitting. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If a person enters the
mosque, he is to not to sit until he offers two rak'ahs].' Note: Ibn Abidin in his
Hashia says: "Our scholars dislike its performance in the times disliked for prayer,
such as after fajr and 'asr. Therefore, if one enters after fajr or 'asr, he is not to offer


" Muslim ٧٣٨.

٢ Muslim ٧١٩.

٣ Bukhari ٩٩٠.

* AsSajda ١٦.

> Ibn Majah ١٤٢١.

® Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٠.
? Bukhari and Muslim.


٢٠٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


the greeting prayer(tahiyya]; rather one is to offer tasbth, tahlil and send blessing
upon the Prophet in order to fulfil its rights."'


Ye Spy ٢ wll oll,


Performing the obligatory prayer is a substitute for the greeting prayer[tahiyyasl.
Ibn Abidin states: "The reality is that what is required from the one entering the
masjid is the performance of prayer in it - so that the prayer is a greeting to the
Lord. The most evident view is that one's entry into the masjid with the intention
to offer the obligatory prayer as imam, or to pray alone or as a follower(all)serve
as a substitute for the éahiyya - provided one prays upon entry into the masjid. If
one"s entry into the masjid is for the obligatory prayer, though the prayer has time
before commencing, one is required to offer the greeting prayer[tahtyya]prior to
sitting. Likewise, if one enters the masjid for something other than prayer, such as
a lesson, or remembrance of God, then the /ahiyya is required prior to sitting.""
Shurunbulali states in Maraky al-Falah: According to the Hanafi Madhhab, the
tahiyyah is not excused even if one sits before praying, though it is recommended
Prior to sitting. And if a person repeats his entry of the masjid, then two rak'ahs
suffice for the day."


dol ٥ HJ wl ce LIST ds Sy


Likewise, performing any prayer upon entering the mosque serves as a substitute
for the greeting prayer even if one does not intend the greeting prayer.


ad Lar[٥ ٦ ٢ g/l de OLAS ٣ Os


It is recommended for one to pray two rak'ahs after ablution before the water on
the body dries. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is
no Muslim, who performs ablution perfectly and then offers two rak'ahs receiving
them with his heart and mind, but that Paradise would be obligatory for him]."


wall Juels a ly


Equally, it is recommended to pray four rak'aks or more for the midmorning
prayer[duha]. Its time is when the sun completely rises to the period before its
zenith. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported that the Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))would observe the midmorning prayer as four rak'ahs
and would increase as he pleased."


aU! a٢ ٩ sy VI avy sae owe Wy


It is recommended to offer the night vigil prayers, the guidance prayer, and the
prayer of need. Regarding the night vigil prayer, it is preferable to offer this prayer in





" Radd al-Muhtar vol. ١/٤٥٨ | Maraky al-Falah ٢٣١.
* Radd al-Muhtar vol. ٢/٤٥٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٣١.

Muslim ٢٣٤.

° Muslim ٧١٩.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٠٩


the last third of the night. And the minimum recommended number to pray is
eight rak'ahs. However, the saying that this prayer is recommended is the legal
status of night prayer, wherein reality, it is an emphasized sunna in the sense that
the Prophet never failed to perform them except on a rare occasion. As for the
guidance prayer |istikhara], Jabir relates that[The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))used to teach us the guidance prayer for all matters, as he would a
surah of the Quran]. Lexically, Istikhara means; the request of that which is good.
A person performs the prayer when he has resolved to undertake an act, during
which he asks Allah to guide him in relation to the thing requested to that which
is good and beneficial for him in his religion, life, and hereafter. The guidance
prayer therefore pertains to future matters. And concerning the prayer of need,
Abdullah Ibn Abi 'Aufa al-Aslami((God be pleased with him))is reported to have
said, "Allah's Messenger came out to us and then said, 'If anyone's need rests with
Allah or with any of His creatures, he should perform ablution and pray two
rak'ahs.'"" The prayer of need is undertaken due to a matter which has befallen a
person and he therefore asks Allah to repel that which he dislikes, or he asks
Allah to provide him with what he seeks.


cdl ald cba L, Olay ye eV all IU ebe]Oa,


It is recommended to stay up in worship in the last ten nights of Ramadan and
the two nights of Eid, as the hadith mentions[Whomever passes the night of Eid,
Allah will preserve his heart on a day when his heart will die].'


intl go © Sus


It is recommended to stay up in worship in the first ten nights of the month of
Dhu al-Hijjah, as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said "No day,
of the days of the world is best in the sight of Allah, on which He is worshipped
than(the worship)of the ten days. And the fast of one day during these days is
equivalent in reward to the fasts of a year and(the worship)of these nights is
equivalent to the night of qadr.""


Ohes cp weasid,


In the middle of the month of Sha'ban, it is recommended to spend the night in
worship because it expiates the sins of the whole year. The night of Friday
expiates the sins of the week, and the night of qadr expiates the sins of one's life."
Ali Ibn Abi Talib((God be pleased with him))reported that Allah's Messenger(God bless him and give him peace)said[If the night of the middle of Sha'ban
arrives, you should offer prayer during the night and fast during the day].'


" Tbn Majah ١٣٨٤.
? Haythami ٢/١٩٨.
٣ Ibn Majah ١٧٢٨.
* Maraky al Falah ٢٣٥.
> Ibn Majah ١٣٨٨.


٢١٠ BOOK II: PRAYER





dL j JL oda oy US Lo]Je lee We Sy


However, it is disliked to gather in the mosques to spend these nights in worship,
for neither the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))nor the Companions
observed them in the mosques. In fact, the majority of the scholars from the
Hijaz, such as 'Aéa and the fuqaha of Madina including the companions of Imam
Malik stated that performing any of these nights in a group is an innovation.


O. ٠,
oe "


o,


@,
o,
~~


AN! fe SLally LIL Jatt de G


Voluntary Prayer While Sitting
And Prayer Upon a Beast(Or Means Of Transport)hall Je a ad an pal jo gail
Sitting For The Voluntary Prayer With The Ability To Stand
Dea AGUS dads y ye oe VI SL ot ined JS)pla fo a sal as lel pictt ٥٩٨


Voluntary prayer is permitted sitting even if one has the ability to stand, although
one receives only half the reward of the one standing unless there is a reason for
sitting, in which case one acquires full merit. And during the prayer, one is to sit
like a person in tashahhud if he has no reason to pray seated, and this is preferred
view on the matter. However, Abu Hanifa held that one may sit as he wishes
because when a person is permitted to leave the original posture of standing, then
to leave the normal manner of sitting is better. If however, one possesses a reason
for sitting, then he may adopt the posture he is comfortable with. Regarding the
first point, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The prayer in a
standing condition is better than prayer in a sitting condition, and the prayer in a
sitting posture is half the prayer of one who offers it in a standing posture].'


CeO Le Hal Se[SU ao Lil tay Luc aol}jl y


It is permissible to complete a voluntary prayer sitting after starting it standing
according to Abu Hanifa. This is the most correct view on the basis that standing
is not a pillar in voluntary prayer and one is therefore permitted to leave it.
However, this is contrary to the two jurists."





" Abu Dawud ٩٥١.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٧.


BOOK It: PRAYER ٢١]٤١ fe Lett all


Voluntary Prayer Upon A Beast(Or Means Of Transport)alo ٤٩> ٩ Mgr ol J}ey pall! coe LSI)Jers


A person outside the city is permitted to offer voluntary prayer whilst riding on
the back of a beast, and he is to pray through indication toward any direction the
beast turns. Ibn Umar(God be pleased with him)said[I saw the Messenger of
Allah((God bless him and give him peace))praying on the back of a donkey when
he was facing Khaybar, and he was praying through indication]." Note: this rule
applies when one has passed the buildings of his area of residence. It is the place
that if a traveller reaches, he is permitted to shorten his prayers." It is not a
condition that one be a traveller according to the Hanafi view, though he must
pass this area. According to Shafi'i and Malik, it is not permitted unless one be a
traveller. Abu Yusuf holds that voluntary prayer upon a beast is permissible
within one's area and that it is not a condition to exit the area of residence.


Sy Vie os


If one begins a voluntary prayer upon the back of a beast and then dismounts, he
is to continue the prayer; though if one begins on the ground, he cannot continue
the prayer if he mounts the beast. The reason being that when one commences
the prayer on the ground he has necessitated all the conditions, though when he
mounts the beast, some conditions are omitted such as facing the qibla, being in
the same place and the reality of bowing and prostration.


did am y dace yh ٢٦٥((paill ae o> Wa pd ٩ BIS ٣١D)AI NTL OLS Sy(CEI fe oY! je y))Lape op ASTUEY al a J ail dls

Prayer through nodding on the back of a beast is permitted for the emphasised

sunan as well as other sunan even if it is the sunna of the dawn(fajr), though Abu


Hanifa held that one must dismount the beast for the sunna of the dawn prayer as
it is more emphasized than other sunan.


WELD gb Go S phe sit IS Ly UALS He OS OL ost fo LGV g ghar jhe y


It is permissible for one offering voluntary prayer to lean on something such as a
stick or wall if he becomes tired and there is no dislike on the basis of having a
reason. If however, there is no reason, then it is disliked according to the correct
view, for it is considered as bad manners.


Ce fe lS dy Ep NGS gly Wyle Seles AI fo Ball ine es Vy


" Muslim, Abu Dawud, and an-Nasai, vol, ٢/١٥١.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٧,


٢١٢ BOOK tl: PRAYER


Filth upon a beast does not prevent the prayer from being valid," even if the filth
is on the saddle or stirrups, and this is the most correct view. This rule is adopted
by the majority of the Hanafi scholars based on necessity.


Cle WL tlle ana Vs
Prayer is not permitted walking and this has the agreement of consensus. The


reason it is not permissible is because one is continuously changing places.


oe, ©
"e "


O
"e


UDI Le Col sly ٢ wl Lal G
Obligatory And Wajib Prayers Upon A Beast
BUD Vy cot bb Ma ٤d Ft lege psd FMS Sbal SV y ٢st we Ula fo ees ¥
PM fe ul LG eye


Obligatory and wajib prayers are not permitted on a beast and neither is the
funeral prayer. Examples of necessary prayers include, i)the witr, ii)the prayer
that one promises to perform(nidhr)and iii)voluntary prayer that was ruined, for
verily if a person spoils a voluntary prayer it becomes necessary to make up and
this cannot be offered upon a beast or in a vehicle. Likewise, the prostration of
recital is not permitted upon a beast if its verse was recited on the ground.


NSM aby pee ٩ Ij Hols shale shad be pa! GSEs pa)YI


However, in all the above cases, it is permissible upon the beast when there is a
necessity such as one who fears for himself, his beast or clothes from a thief(who
may steal from him)if he dismounts. In this case, it is permitted on the back of a
beast. Allah says[If you fear an enemy, pray on foot or riding(as may be most
convenient)].' Other valid reasons include fear from a predatory animal, or the
ground is excessively muddy in which if one prostrates, his face will disappear.
And if it happens that one has no beast and the ground is excessively muddy, one
is permitted to pray standing nodding with his head."


٠ pred aS pp Ct Older y ptt y UII! e yy
Equally, if the beast will become uncontrollable by the rider dismounting from it
or there is no helper present to assist him to remount the beast due to his inability
to mount by himself, then both obligatory and necessary prayers are permitted
riding on a beast.


" This ruling does not change even when the filth exceeds the area of a dirham. The area
of a dirham is the internal part of the palm.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٨).

* Al-Baqarah ٢٣٩.

> Maraky al-Falah ٢٣٩.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٣





pol J acl!
Prayer In A Carriage(Howdah)"
Lidl y sh Gls CIS ol pee ale SAILS SHA fe ford! Gall,


Prayer in a carriage, which is fixed upon a beast, is regarded like prayer on its
back, and it is the same whether the beast is moving or still.[BU ab tay AI ened NU es OS ٢ Sal ٨ gs Lt ell cS ar


If one stops the beast and places logs underneath the carriage so that the base of
the carriage is leaning on the ground using the logs as pillars, the carriage is
regarded as having the same status as the ground, and in this situation, it is
correct to perform the obligatory prayer standing in the carriage, not sitting.


aid! Gall ٣ oad
Ritual Prayer On A Ship(Boat
Spry ٦ ٥ Dh dem Gl re deme ple WH el Sake py yd ٢ wll de


Offering obligatory prayer on a moving ship in a sitting posture without having a
reason to sit, is valid according to Abu Hanifa' and one is to offer the prayer
through bowing and prostration while sitting. One cannot pray through nodding.
The reason this is permissible according to Abu Hanifa is because to stand while
in a ship usually entails dizziness. However, the best thing is either to stand and
pray or exit the ship if one is able because this will distance one from any
disagreement.'

CIPD! fe ssa pues | I Ny AS shally APY yay ere oe VI ened VYUy
However, Imams Abu Yusuf and Muhammad held that one is not permitted to sit
unless he has a reason to do so, and this is the most evident opinion; and a valid
reason may include dizziness or being unable to exit the ship. Therefore,
according to the jurists Abu Yusuf and Muhammad, one is to pray standing in the
ship unless there is a reason, in which case he may offer it sitting. The proof they
used are the words of the Prophet[Pray standing(in a ship)except if you fear
drowning]."


Gat lab led ٥٥٨ Ys


One is not permitted to offer prayer in the ship through indication(nodding)if he
is able to bow and prostrate, and this is agreed upon.


" A howdah is a carriage that is positioned on the back of camels or elephants for travellers to
journey in.

? Even if one is able to exit the ship onto land, the prayer is correct. However, if one is able to
exit the ship, it is better in order to avoid the varying views of scholars and be content at heart[Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٠].

> Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٠.

* Al-Hakim ١/٤٠٩ and al-Baihaqi ٣/١٥٥.


٢١٤ BOOK I: PRAYER





CoM fe Mail SG Vy BLN Lt ee SYS Fy pdt Gaby Aly


If a ship at sea is tied down with an anchor, but is being swayed by a strong wind,
then it is regarded as a moving ship, which means that one may pray sitting
according to Abu Hanifa because it is regarded as a moving ship. Though
according to Abu Yusuf and Muhammad, he is to stand if he does not possess a
valid reason. Although, if the ship is not being swayed, then it deemed as a still
ship at shore and this is the most correct view. The ruling of a still ship tied at
shore is given next.


PIN NG fo CAN oye o gt OS ٩ BE Leo off le VU luc GAs jf V bth tb y » oil Oly
CIE Key J ١ Vy]dl fe pena HY]٦ ous! owe


If the ship is tied at shore, prayer is not permitted sitting if one has the ability to

stand according to the majority. And if one prays standing, and there is part of

the ship on the bottom of the ground, then the prayer is valid. If not, then prayer

is not permitted in it according to the preferred view on the matter unless it is not

possible to exit the ship, in which case, one may offer the prayer based on the

necessity. Though it is apparent in other Hanafi books, namely al-Hidaya and al-

Nihaya that prayer is permitted standing in a vessel which is tied at shore

regardless of whether it is touching the ground or not." Hence, if a ship is tied at

shore, one is to exit if he can. If he cannot, then he is permitted to pray onboard whilst

standing. If he can exit but opts to pray on board the ship, then his prayer is correct if he

prayed standing with part of the ship touching the ground. If no part of the ship is touching the
ground, then his prayer is not valid since he is able to exit the ship. This last point is identical
to a person who places a carriage upon a beast and then halts the beast and places logs
underneath the base of the carriage so that it has the same legal status as that of the ground.

The person then prays standing in the carriage because technically, the carriage is like that of
the ground because of the pillars that support it. Likewise, if part of the ship tied at shore
touches the ground, one may pray standing even though he is able to exit, because the ship or
boat has the same status as that of the ground. If no part is touching, then the prayer is invalid
since he can exit and pray on land.


In summary, a moving ship allows a person to pray in it standing according to the two jurists,
but sitting according to Abu Hanifa(even without a reason). And if the ship is anchored at sea
and is being swayed, it is regarded as a moving ship and is therefore subject to the same
disagreement.


If the ship is anchored at sea, though is not being swayed, then it is regarded as a still ship at
shore. A few rules are derived concerning a still ship at shore; if one offers prayer standing with
part of the ship on the ground, his prayer is valid. If not,(i.e. there is no part touching the
ground)then his prayer is invalid unless he is unable to exit the ship, in which case he may
offer the prayer standing. Additionally if a ship is anchored at sea and is still, one obviously
cannol exit the ship and is therefore allowed to offer the prayer based on the necessity. And
Allah knows best.





" Maraky al-Falah ٤٢١,


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٥





E> THAI IE Dlg]ae gop Gr sla US y Ball cleil ee LAN I ged all ox gy
If the ship is sailing, one is to direct himself towards the qibla at the
commencement of prayer, and every time the ship veers from the qibla, one is to
re-direct himself towards it throughout the entire prayer so that he completes it
while facing qibla.
etal
Tarawih'
Lely Sle WU dane ce gh jl


The tarawih is sunna for both male and female. Abu Hanifa held it as an
emphasized sunna. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))sald[Upon you is my sunna and the sunna of the rightly guided Caliphs after me};
and verily Umar, Uthman and Ali((God be pleased with them all))were diligent
with respect to the tarawih prayers.


WS i eLLL Ye,


To pray the tarawih in a group is a communal sunna(Mjfaya), i.e. it is a collective
sunna because it has been established that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))offered it in a group as eleven rak'ahs consisting of the witr. Though
he later discontinued to perform the tarawih in a group for fear of it becoming
compulsory.


ge opr liye crs Al fo isl AB prays lial dio de yy
Its time is after the 'sha prayer until the arrival of dawn. And it is valid to offer


the witr before or after the tarawih, though it is best to delay it until after the
tarawih.


wall fe ode be SI lapel oS Vy ata gl PUL UI est Web nes


It is recommended to delay the tarawih prayers to shortly before one third of the
night has passed or just prior to half of it, though scholars recommend tarawih to
be offered before half the night has passed. Other scholars maintain that there is
no dislike in delaying tarawih to after half the night and this is the soundest view
because the best night prayers are at the end of the night; however, even though it





Tarawih is the plural of tarwiha. Lexically, tarwiha is the name given to the one time of rest.
It also implies sitting because this is a rest for the body. In its juristic sense, it is considered
as the rest one has after four rak'ahs. It was called such, because the sitting after the prayer
is rest.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٢].

* Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi.

* Ibn Khuzayma ٢/١٣٨.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٣).


٢١٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


is not disliked, it is better not to delay tarawih until such time for fear of missing
the prayers with the entry of dawn.


SS An ٥ ٠٩ Fay
Tarawih is twenty rak'ahs consisting of ten(pairs)of finishing salams according to


the consensus of the Companions; that is, each pair is finalised with finishing
salams.


le jAe deri JS we» I orrey


After completing four rak'ahs of tarawih, it is recommended to sit and rest for as
much time as was required for the performance of four rak'ahs.


Pply mtd cry All oy ١٤٥


This is also the case between the last tarawih prayer and the witr, in that it is
recommended to sit and rest for an amount of time equivalent to two pairs and
this is what Abu Hanifa held. And during this rest, one may utter invocations or
recite Quran.


NBM De om ks SL gop Ve ti ١S pill ey Jo Ly ٦ cereal fo sg ttl D٥ ps Uged OT pl pe ey


It is sunna to recite the whole Quran in the tarawih prayers once in the month of
Ramadan, and this is the soundest view. It is been said of Abu Hanifa - that he
completed the Quran sixty one times in Ramadan. In the day he would complete
it once, and in every tarawih prayer he recited the Quran once, thereafter he
offered the dawn prayer with the wudu of 'isha prayer for forty years. If the people
dislike or become weary from the effort of reciting the Quran once in the month,
then the imam is to recite the amount which does not deter the people from the
prayer and this is the opted view, because it is better not to make people loathe
the group prayer which then causes them to neglect its attendance. It states in the
books al-kAtiyar and al-Muhit, that the best thing in our time is not to make people
dislike the group prayer, for the larger numbers are greater than lengthy
recitation. The legal ruling[fatwa]issued is in conformity with this.


desk! fe oo pill be gly pre gts IS a ploy ale dtl bo Ls fe Hal Ie Vy


However, the sbrahimiya in every tashahhud of the tarawih prayer must not be
neglected even if the people dislike this, because it is an established sunna to
recite the ibrahimiya according to the Hanifa school and obligatory according to
Imam Shafi'i. And this is the chosen view on the matter.


spreSly FSM ay LY,


Likewise, one is not to abandon the opening glorification at the beginning of each
tarawih prayer, and neither the tasbik in bowing and prostration, for some schools
of thought hold these actions as obligatory whilst in the Hanifa school, they are an
emphasized sunna. Thus, one must not abandon them even if the people dislike
this for it is deemed idleness on their part.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٧


esall fp of lee GLY,


However, if the people become weary, the imam may abandon the supplication
just before the finishing salams prior to the end of each prayer.


delaw Ys lot lel ye cu sl al gals Vy


If a person fails to offer the tarawih by himself or in a group(in its appointed
time), it cannot be made up later because tarawih is the sunna of a specific time, it
is not like a sunna of fasting. If a person makes up tarawih, it is regarded for him
as voluntary prayer, not tarawih.


٤٠S ٣٣a OL
Prayer In The Ka'bah
Obligatory and voluntary prayers are permissible within the ka'bah. Allah said[.that they should sanctify My house for those who compass it round, or use it as
a retreat, or bow, or prostrate themselves{therein in prayer}].'


Ugebe Saal OW Bele Y oy Ke SS i re de Joly Ui gb US,


Likewise, they(obligatory and voluntary prayers)are permitted on top of the
ka'bah even if one does not place a barrier for himself, although it is disliked to
do so, because it is an offensive etiquette to get on top of the ka'bah.


cents Vale! ocr y S٠٦ fer Oly ee Lad gd yd aale}omy nb SNe eh er ory


When performing ritual prayer in congregation inside the ka'bah or above it, if a
follower turns his back to any direction other than the face of his imam, then his
following is deemed valid. If however, the follower turns his back towards the face
of the imam, then his prayer is nullified for the reason that the follower will be in
front of the imam in the same direction in which the imam is praying. See the
outlay below.


*Follower's face - imam's back[Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٦}*Follower's face - imam's side


*Follower's back - imam's side
: : All are valid, even though one is facing a
*Follower's back - imam"s back different direction to the imam. Note: it is


disliked if one faces the imam head on and yet
there is no screen between them.


*Follower's side - imam's face





*Follower's side - imam's side.


though the follower is facing
the other way


*Follower's face - imam's face


٢١٨ BOOK Il: PRAYER


Coe lls Lead plo pr Le el eos


One's following of the imam is valid if the imam prays inside the ka'bah with the
door open while the followers pray outside. Note: It is not a condition for the door
to be open, but it is a condition for the follower to know about the changing
actions of the imam. If one can hear the imam while the door is closed, then the
following is valid.


abel dg ٣ Ug ST OS AY}¢ eee Ler gt PLY, Lim | yale Oo,


If many followers including the imam offer prayer around the ka'bah in a circular
manner, then all their prayers are valid, except for the one who advances in front
of the imam in the same side the imam is praying. If however, there is a follower
on the other side of the ka'bah and he is closer to the ka'bah than the imam, it is
valid because he is not praying in the same direction of the imam. See diagram
four below.


Diagram four
At this point, it does not matter
¢ <٤—— if he is closer than the Imam.


Follower - this person"s prayer is
void as he is praying in front of the
imam while praying in the same
direction as the imam.





Imam ——» t


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢١٩


PLA ses OL
Prayer Of The Traveller


A traveller in Islam receives dispensations and allowances that a resident(non-
traveller)does not. Such dispensations include: the traveller wiping his footgear
for seventy-two hours whilst the resident may only wipe for twenty-four hours. It is
permitted for the traveller to break his fast during Ramadan even though he is of
sound health. Additionally, it is not necessary for the traveller to attend Friday
prayer or Eid prayers, whilst it is obligatory for the resident. Imam Shafi'i held
that the traveller is permitted to unite the dhuAr and 'asr together at the time of
dhuhr or at the time of 'esr. Equally, one may unite the maghrib with the 'isha at the
time of maghrib or 'isha.


SV ag pas oll i


The Travel Due To Which The Rules Change
sets de My LY gs dey pe al oll pall ye PLL ODE ٥ pe EV gy pac pie fil


CHM che ٠ Sd inte y lb pry(١d gare OSL OY)deel ly tI dy ld lS tay LY!
cot cel pal by(el GA ٠٩ ٤٥ AL


The smallest journey due to which the legal rules are changed' is the distance of
three days travel from the shortest days of the year, at an average pace and having
rest periods along the way.' An average pace is regarded as the walking pace of a
camel or walking pace of humans on land. With respect to a mountain range, the
pace considered is that which is appropriate to its conditions, that being the pace
of a walking camel or walking on foot. If one is at sea, the wind at an average pace
is the factor considered. Note: This rule law has been calculated by scholars in
terms of kilometres, in that if a person travels the distance of ٨١km one-way by
whatever means of transport it may be, then he is regarded as a traveller.'


dy faail be Leal ٥ glans celina ya)pale IB]oo pty Lol IS Joe ed sys cee ELI ٦ all paid


Gj Edo fds Va gle td gl dey pay oll Latil Oly Sha op


" Such as the shortening of prayer, the permissibility of not fasting during Ramadan and
the wiping of the footgear for seventy two hours etc.

? The travel of three days does not mean the travel of every minute of the day for three
days. Rather, the night is the time of rest and the day is the time for travel. For example: if
on the first day, a person intending travel sets off on the journey early and travels only
until midday, and then reaches a rest area where he camps overnight. Then on the second
day, he sets off early and travels until @ ltée after midday, and then on the third day sets off
early until midday, then he is deemed a traveller.(Maraky al-Falah). If however, one covers
this distance in a short period of time, then it holds the same ruling.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٤٨ pt-٥.


٢٢٠ BOOK I: PRAYER





sual ad
The Shorting Of Prayer


The traveller is permitted to shorten the four rak'ah obligatory prayers even if his
intention for travel is to disobey Allah, such as theft. This is according to the
Hanafi School while Imam Shafi'i and Imam Malik held that one intending evil
in his travel receives no dispensations. The shortening of prayers is permitted
when one passes the buildings of his area of residence as well as passing the
townyard[fina]" that is connected to the buildings of his area. Though if there is
farmland or an open space(around four hundred paces long)which is connected to the
townyard, then it is not a condition for one to pass this. Therefore, once a person
passes the buildings of his area including the townyard that is connected to the
buildings of his area, he may shorten prayer even if he has not yet travelled ٨١km.
One does not have to go beyond the farms or orchards that may be connected to
the townyard. Note: nowadays, when a person passes the buildings of his area and then
reaches the parks or cemetery(fina'), this may be connected to another town or village. In this
case,(t.¢. if the fina', such as the parks/cemetery is connected with another village), it is not
conditional for one to pass the next town before shortening his prayers; rather one must only
pass the fina' concerned with his town.'


IM oh٣٩ lps ٤٥ ٥ ALS etLeal tall OI: Lal,


The townyard[fina]is an area regarded as a place of benefit for the town or
village, such as for the running of animals like a stable or a place of burial.


pal a Vm by
Conditions That Validate The Intention Of Travel
LOW szticind bitsy
Three conditions validate the intention of travel
LI SW oc ASN ote Olradi plese F ply SLL II
١- One must be independent(self-governing)with respect to making the
judgement for himself. For example; a soldier with his commander is not
independent and neither is a wife with her husband. The basis for this is that the
soldier or wife cannot form a proper intention because of the uncertainty of the
travel, such as - will they travel the required distance or will they turn back half


way, etc. Therefore, one cannot be joined to someone else where he cannot make
the determination for himself. In this case, one is not independent.


٢- Maturity is conditional.





" The fina'(townyard)is a place that benefits the community of the town, such as a
cemetery, park, or stable. Therefore, if one should pass the buildings of his town as well as
the cemetery connected to this for example, then he is permitted to begin shortening his
prayers even if he has not yet travelled ٨١km.

Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٠.


BOOK I: PRAYER ٢٢١


٣- One cannot travel less than three days; that is, less than ٨١km one-way, it must
be at least ٨١km.


aslie I ae j٩lt doy na

A person cannot shorten his prayers if he has not passed the buildings of his area
of residence. Note: Maraky al-Falah states that one is not deemed a traveller when
he resolves to do so and neither when the time of travel arrives or when he
mounts his beast(or sits in his vehicle)yet all the while he remains in his town;
and Allah knows best. The shortening of prayer begins when one passes the
townyard[fina or the buildings of his area of residence. This is due to the saying
of Allah[When you are travelling in the land, there is nothing wrong in your
shortening the prayer]." Verily, in this verse, the shortening of the prayers is
conditional upon travel and one is not travelling until he passes the buildings of
where he lives. There is a narration from Anas in which he said: "I offered four
rak'ahs of dhuhr prayer with the Prophet at Madina and two rak'ahs at Dhul
Hulayfa(shortening the 'asr prayers)."? Thus, the Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))did not shorten prayer until he exited from Madina.


gr aly oY ys ee tally berg)ce I MUS «peat de pie gp DULG gh Lene O١٥(Lh ot antl)٥ gle i
SWS O٤٠ Lob ٣ ' onl


And if the buildings have been passed with the intention of travel, prayer cannot
be shortened if the passer is: i)a boy or ii)a dependant person whom is joined to
his leader who has not made the intention of travel, such as a wife with her
husband,' or a slave with his master or a soldier with his commander. In such
cases, prayer cannot be shortened. Likewise if one intends to travel a distance of
less than three days journey, which is less than ٨١km, they are not permitted to


shorten prayer, because according to the law, a distance which is less than ٨١km is
not regarded as travel.


Ce SG yl as coho POI Qc ys Jo ope dally GUY AS poss
The intention of travelling and residing is taken from the primary source which is
the person who is followed, such as the leader, husband, master, commander etc.
and not the follower, such as a wife, slave or soldier, unless the follower actually
knows the intention of the one they are following, in which case one may intend
for themselves, and this is the soundest view. Note: The journey's destination
must be known. If a wife travelling with her husband or a soldier with his leader
does not know the destination(or intention), they cannot shorten their prayers
because they do not know if they will travel the required distance of ٨١km. If they


know the intentions and destination and the journey meets the conditions, they
may shorten prayer.


" Quran ٣:١٠١.
? Bukhari ١٠٨٩.
> Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٠.


* That is, the husband did not make an intention to travel, so the wife cannot intend travel as
she is dependent on him.


٢٢٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


pail Ko
The Ruling Of Shortening
Vase an pass ٣


The shortening of prayers according to the Hanafi Madhhab is regarded as
prayer in its original state as it was when it was first introduced for the traveller.
Verily, when the prayer of the traveller was revealed from the beginning, it was
two rak'ahs, not four as in the case of the dhuhr prayer for the resident. It is for
this reason that the prayer of the traveller in the Hanafi Madhhab is not an
allowance[rukhsa], it is an 'azimah. The term 'azimah is used in the Arabic text
above, and is intended to read as — the prayer of the traveller is an 'azimah. The word
'azimah literally means a firm resolve. According to the Sacred law, it is regarded
as a matter that was sanctioned(and made law)from the beginning without it
being connected to any variance. On this basis, the Hanafi School deems it wajib
for a traveller to shorten his prayers. Imam Shafi'i and Imam Ahmad held that
the shortening of prayer is a dispensation, therefore, if one wishes he may shorten


prayer and if one wishes he may pray the full number. Imam Malik held that the
shortening of prayer is a sunna and not wajib."


UY UU BY ٦ ٥ IBY VI ٦ cena ٨ VL y ٦ al SI es Cee Core Syl a gall andy SOL I aT SP


As previously mentioned, it is wajib for a traveller to shorten his four rak'ah
prayers to two rak'ahs, though if a traveller completes four rak'ahs and sat the
first sitting, the prayer is valid, though is disliked because the finishing salams
have been delayed." In this case, the last two rak'ahs are deemed as voluntary
prayer for him. If however, he does not sit for the first sitting after two rak'ahs and
continues the prayer as four rak'ahs, then the prayer is not valid, unless he
intended to be a resident when standing for the third rak'ah, in which case the
prayer is valid, even if he did not perform the first sitting, because in this case, it
is obligatory to pray four rak'ahs, and the prayer of a resident who misses the first
sitting in a four rak'ah prayer does not invalidate the prayer. /n summary, if the
traveller prayed four rak'ahs without offering the first sitting, his prayer is void, unless he
intends residence when standing for the third rak'ah.


١ :
Rawai'ul Bayan, ٤٨٤.


* The reason the finishing salams have been delayed is because one is required to pray two


rak'ahs, not four; and because one delayed his finish by praying four, it is disliked though is
valid if one offers the first sitting.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٢٣


pal ise
The Period Of Shortening Prayers
case ght gad shee Jil ٥ ٩ OL pads ei gl the spt a call ge glee pe fo > pats IZ,


The traveller is to continue shortening his prayers until he re-enters his hometown
or until he makes an intention of staying at another town or village for fifteen
days." If one intends to remain for less than fifteen days, or does not intend his
length of stay, and remained for years, then he may shorten his prayers in both
cases for that duration or until he intends. The reason being, that one has not
fixed the intention, so he does not know exactly when he will depart. 'Alqamah
Ibn Kays remained in such a state where he shortened his prayer for years,


Additionally, Ibn Umar((God be pleased with him))stayed on in Adharbijan{oy
six months and continued to curtail his prayers.'


UBM aS eat Y
When Is An Intention Of Residing Not Valid
Lda}call cna dolly UUW AS eal Vy


The intention of residing is not valid in two towns where a person has not
specified only one as a place of residence. For example: one intends he will stay at
Makkah and Madina for ٢٠ days, but does not specify his residence at one of the
locations. In this case, one is required to remain shortening his prayers even
though he has intended twenty days, because he has not specified only one town
where he will reside. The reason is that the intention at two locations implies that
he will be at different locations and this prevents the rule of residence from
operating. The exception is when he intends to spend the night at one of the two


places, in which case he will be become a resident the moment he enters the
location.*


LY pl Wij Gy


Intending the desert as a place of residence is not valid, except for those people
who live in tents as their homes.


w Fl sl b Sad Vs





" For example: a person who has departed Australia for England for seventeen days is legally
regarded as a traveller and is therefore permitted to shorten his prayers on the way to England.
However, he must discontinue shortening his prayers when he arrives at his destination in
England because he has intended a stay of fifteen days or more. /f he intends to stay for less than
fifteen days, then he is to shorten his prayers for this duration. Likewise, upon returning to Australia,
this person is to shorten his prayers on the way, and discontinue upon reaching his hometown.

٢ Abi Shaybah ٢/٢٠٨, al-Zayla'i ٣/١٨٥.

° Abd al-Razzaq and al-Baihagi. Al-Zayla'i, vol. ٢/١٨٥; al-Ayni, vol. ٣/٢٠.

* Al-Hidayah ٢٠٧}Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٢.


٢٢٤ BOOK II: PRAYER





An intention of residing is not valid for soldiers who are fighting on enemy land
for the reason that there is hesitation in their intention as to when they will leave
and how long they will stay. Thus, in this situation - prayers must continue to be
shortened because the intention of residing is not valid in such a state.


In addition, an intention of residing is not valid for soldiers who lay siege to a city
or town against disobedient Muslims in our land, because again there is hesitation
between staying and departure in which the intention is not specified. The


Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))stayed at Tabuk for twenty days,
shortening the prayers(during his stay)."


ASE cds LAL ols!


A Traveller Praying Behind A Resident And Vice Versa
lard aly eo ci NG pedey Blas asl oly


If a traveller offers prayer in its time behind a resident imam in the
congregational prayer, then the prayer is valid and the traveller is to complete the
prayer as four rak'ahs with the imam.


lead Gene danny « ceva Voters


If however, the congregational prayer is not being offered in its time(that is, its
time has expired)the traveller is not permitted to pray behind a resident imam,
though the traveller can be the imam for the residents in this case," and can also
be the imam if the prayer is offered in its time. The Prophet(God bless him and
give him peace))performed prayer with the people of Makkah while he was a
traveller saying[Complete your prayer, for we are in travel]. Therefore, the
traveller can be a follower behind a resident imam if the prayer is offered in its
time, though not if its time has expired. And it is valid if the traveller is the imam
in both cases.


Beall ٣٤٦٩ NF US yl OF acs dle GP Sie Hil: J py oF(ote ll te)(LW us


COS BL aalal Fo day dace[eo pall Le Ys





" Abu Dawud ١٢٣١.

? For example; the time of the dhuhr prayer has passed, and the resident imam and others have
missed it from its time. They therefore gather together to pray it as a group. In this case, the
traveller is not permitted to pray behind this imam who is a resident, though the traveller
himself can be the imam. And even if the resident imam said the opening Allahu akbar right
before the time of the prayer had expired, the traveller is still not permitted to pray behind
them because the time is not sufficient.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٣]* Abu Dawud | Muwattah of Imam Malik.


BOOK I: PRAYER ٢٢٥:


If the traveller is the imam, it is recommended for him, after the final salams on
completion of two rak'ahs, to say, "Complete your prayer, I am a traveller." However,
prior to the prayer, he is required to say these words to prevent uncertainty. And
after the traveller imam completes his prayer, the followers stand and complete
their prayer without reciting Quran because the imam's recitation suffices and no


one may enter and pray behind them.
wl yall elias


Making Up Missed Prayers
ci NM Tad ally Lash pay gat patly aS islis


If a traveller misses a prayer and decides to make it up when he is a resident, he is
to offer it as two rak'ahs. And if a resident misses a prayer and decides to make it
up when he is a traveller, he is to offer it as four rak'ahs. The factor considered
here of whether to pray the full number when one is a resident or two rak'ahs
when a traveller, is the status of the person in the last timing of the prayer Ae
missed: meaning, if a person is a traveller in the last part of the prayer time, and then misses
the prayer, he is to offer two rak'ahs, and if one becomes a resident in the last part of its time,
and then misses the prayer, he is to offer four rak'ahs. Consider the following: Person X is
a traveller who has not yet offered the dhuhr prayer and has nearly entered the
time of 'asr. Therefore, in the last part of the prayer time, he is a traveller. He then
misses the prayer and returns home becoming a resident. The end result of this
Scenario is that he was a traveller in the last part of the prayer time and is
therefore required to make it up as two rak'ahs. Hence, the status of the person in
the last timing of the prayer determines whether he prays two or four.
Additionally, if one is a resident in the last timing of the dhuhr prayer, misses the
prayer and then decides to travel thus becoming a traveller. He is to offer the full
number of rak'ahs when making up the prayer because in the last part of its time,


he was a resident.
One's Place of Dwelling, Its Types And What Invalidates It'
had tn, Jo! ٣b i flaws
A person's original permanent residence(i.e. homeland)is no longer regarded as
such when it is replaced by a new permanent residence. If one simply departs for
travel or temporarily lives in another location, then this does not nullify the status


of one's permanent residence, for indeed this can only be changed with something
like it. If a person goes on journey, and resides in a temporary residence,


" In order to enact the laws of travel, it is vital to know some of its basic definitions. It is
essential to know the types of dwelling places, such as one's permanent residence(i.e.
homeland)and one's temporary place of residence. There is a difference here, because the place
of temporary residence is a place one travels to intending a stay of at least fifteen days or more,
whereas one's permanent residence is the place one was born or married in and intends to live
out his life - this is known as his permanent home.


٢٢٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


thereafter, he returns to his permanent residence, one's status of a traveller ceases
and he now has to offer the prayer in full.


PeVey dll y cates UBM yb y flay
The place of Iqama" ends when; i)a person locates to a similar place like it, or
ii)if he merely sets out on a journey from that place of dwelling, or iii)if he
returns to his permanent residence, in which case his temporary residence ceases.
For example: one travels from Australia to Syria where he is studying law. This
person intends his stay at a village called Barakah for about six months. This is
therefore known as his temporary place of residence(igama)where he is to offer
prayer normally because it is for fifteen days or more. If at some point this person
decides to move to another town, then his temporary residence at Barakah has
ended because he has moved to a similar place like it. Additionally, if this person
returns home to his permanent resident(ie. Australia), then his temporary
residence at Barakah is no longer regarded as such. Hence, one's iqama ends
when, a)one locates to a place like it; b)returns to his hometown; and c)sets out
on a journey from that place. With respect to point 'c' of setting out on a journey:
this means that if one goes sight-seeing for the day and it was ٨l١km away, then he
is permitted to shorten his prayer(and his temporary residence ceases until he
returns).
ae NESW Y ted Lady cad she ea she ad Ay Gill pe Lob I

One's permanent residence(homeland)is the place one is born or married. And
even if one did not marry there, but intended to live in as a permanent place of
stay and not to emigrate from it. Thus, it t is regarded as a permanent place of
stay in which one intends to live and remain in. If for example, a person born in
Australia travels to the United Kingdom to study medicine and he takes up
residence on campus until his course is complete; then his place of temporary
residence(igama)is the United Kingdom, though his permanent residence is
Australia.


GB |b po hai GUN ٥٩٥ op LUN by,
The place of iqama(temporary residence)is the place one intends to reside in for
half a month or more(that is, fifteen days or more). This means, if a person


travels to another country and intends to reside there for at least fifteen days, then
he must offer his prayers normally.


He Ba ٠٩٩ ٤B LU ٥ pyle pry gS pb ٩ O gated pow dy
The place where one intends to reside for dess than fifteen days is not regarded by
scholars as a place of residence. This means that if a person goes on travel and


decides to remain in a village or town for dess than fifteen days, he is permitted to
shorten prayer for that duration.


o
O


o,
O١٠ Oe Oe


٢
©


" The place of igama is one's temporary residence where one has intended at least fifteen days.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٢٧





a A ae SL


The Prayer Of A Sick Person


van MM fay ٤S
How The Prayer Of A Sick Person Is Performed
E٩٥٧ ew ro a olka gi ٢ Works Ge gle rt oye a sl plat JS a٢ pl fo pin ١}AKaz Le sti ol Vy seo dele AS Anny pres


If one is unable to stand for the entire prayer or it will be difficult due to the
presence of strong pain or one fears aggravation of his present illness or that it
may delay his recovery if he were to pray standing, then it is permissible to pray
seated offering bowing and prostration, and one may sit any way he likes." The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked about praying with an
illness upon which he said[Pray standing, and if you are unable, then pray sitting,
and if you are unable then(pray)on your side];' and if one is able to stand for part
of the prayer, then he is to do so according to his capacity.


A Of « ¢ ٩٥ Sle! cy aie)dg oclel frm y cele Wb Meld foo yrectly ٩٥! pad Oly
cea Y ane wast


If one is unable to bow or prostrate, but capable of sitting even though leaning
against something, he is permitted to pray sitting and nod his head for the bowing
and prostration; and his nod for the prostration is to be lower than his nod for the
bowing; and if one does not lower his head further down, then the prayer stands
invalid. Note: the same rule applies if one cannot prostrate, but able to perform
the bowing; in that he is to nod for both of them. The basis for this rule is the
hadith of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)who visited a man and
saw him praying on a cushion. The Prophet removed it after which the man took
a stick and began to lean upon it. This was also removed by the Prophet as he
said, "Pray sitting if you can and if you are unable, then pray by indicating(nodding), and make your nod for the prostration lower than your nod for the
bowing."


VY qe ls ait y J Ob ale tne tars abn Vs


And one is not to elevate anything to his face to prostrate on, such as a board.
Though if he does this and lowers his head further down for the prostration than
the bowing, the prayer is valid. If not, then the prayer is deemed invalid, because
one has left the compulsory prostration through nodding. The Prophet(God bless


" Whether it is the iftirash style, the tawarruk style or in a completely different manner, though
it is disliked to sit in an offensive manner when there is no reason to do so.

* Bukhari ١١١٧.

* AbBaihaqi in Sunan al-Kubrah ٢/٣٠٦.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٥].


٢٢٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


him and give him peace)said[Whoever of you is able to perform prostration, then
he should perform it, and whoever is unable, then he should not raise something
to his face to prostrate on, but rather for bowing and prostration should indicate
with his head]." In the text al:Mujtabah, it states: The manner of nodding for
bowing and prostration appeared to resemble each other, in that - is it enough to
just slightly move forward with the head and body? Or is one required to lower


themselves as far as possible? The narration thereafter became apparent with a
proof that permits the slight movement of the body and head.

Shaykh al-Islam held that if one prays by indication and slightly moves his head for
the bowing, and then for the prostration slightly moves his head, then it is
permitted according to Abu Hanifa. Ibn Fadal on the other hand held that it is
not valid because the action required has not been performed; and that the reality
of indication is to lower the head. Additionally, some scholars say, "If a person
suffers from an ailment with his forehead and nose, such as severe dizziness, then
he is permitted to pray with indication(nodding), and he is not required to lean
forward as far as possible."


Vo Mal Mage y mead toley ly ck fatge Sls My cece fe ole Lin glo atl ai oly
ALD S}Lede Ys phd ٠! ٢٥)rt ag ٦ oll


If it is difficult to offer prayer sitting, one is permitted to lie down on his back or
side and offer the prayer through indication, although the first option is best, i.e.
to lie down on one's back because one has more of his body facing the direction of
prayer. And during this posture, one is to place a cushion under his head in order
to direct his face towards the qibla, not the sky, and must raise the knees if
possible to avoid extending his feet towards the direction of prayer.


SB ٦ Mad agi plo Le(CULE Le ٣٩ DDS y py Be = ay Aa BLAND)co LSI pas Oly
cereal ya: Glad! J
If one is unable to pray by nodding his head for five prayer or less, then they are


postponed so long as he understands communication; meaning that his rational
faculty is functioning, and this is mentioned in al-Hidayah as the correct view.


Ohy i pho ah ope AST ol LVI ٢٦ a jane plo ١٣ eLadll b gy(Aly ell)§ Std Cole pies
JIB LY Bb EY At eshtly Chaaall)J alte Otani re ys OUadl agi ls
p٥٩(SM)cot Gere Ll ga ILD Fy ccs cilladery Uy II aU ya Ce pall
GN gh ys Fly sie


" Tabarani ٧/١٧٧.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٦.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٢٩





The author of al-Hidayah(then)resolved the issue confirming in the books al-
Tajnis and al-Mazid: that if a person is unable to indicate with his head for more
than five prayers and still maintains his understanding of communication, then he is
not required to make up the prayers, and this view is held as the most sound
according to Imam Qadikhan and others like him in the book al-Muhit. This was
also the opted view of Shaykh al-Islam and Fakhr alIslam(asSarakhsy). In
addition, the book Adh-Dhahiriya states that "J¢ is the dearest report" which the
fatwa coincides with. It is also the opted view in the book al-Khilasah; and in the
book of al-Yanaabi' and al-Badai' it is deemed the soundest judgment and al-
Walwaliji held this view. Hence, if one is unable to nod for five prayer or less, they
are postponed whilst prayers in excess of five need not be made up in the soundest view.


Branches


axle ycbiy cme y dy


It is not valid to indicate with the eyes, eyebrows, or heart, and if one does so, it is
not correct because prostration is linked with the head, not with the eyes,
eyebrows, or heart. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace said))[If
the sick is unable to pray standing, then he may pray sitting; and if he is unable to
pray sitting, then he may pray on his back and if he is unable to do this, then
Allah has accepted his reason]. Scholars differed with respect to the last point of
the hadith which reads: Allah has accepted his reason. Some scholars hold that
this means; that his prayer is delayed and others maintain that it means he is
required to make up his prayers later and some maintain that prayer is excused
from him in that state. The author maintains that one is not required to make up
the prayers and this is the saying of the majority." This is contrary to the
Madhhab of Imam Shafi'i which allows a person to indicate with such things, such
as one's eyes.


ALVU NEU Lo > sry & ٩٥ ye joey plat le jai oly


If one is able to stand, but unable to bow and prostrate, then he is to offer the
prayer through indication whilst seated. This means that one is to bow and
prostrate by nodding his head whilst seated should he be unable to do so
normally.


٣G SLE hy pd le ee oe de ٦ Oly


If one begins the prayer in sound health, but is then overcome by illness, he is to
continue the prayer in the posture he is able, even if it is through indication, and
this is the most correct view.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٨.


٢٣٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


If a person prays in a sitting posture offering it through bowing and prostration,
but then recovers from illness, he is to continue the prayer, although if one
offered part of his prayer nodding with his head, but is thereafter able to bow and
prostrate, he is not permitted to continue the prayer according to all the Hanafi
jurists because a person cannot form the stronger element upon the weaker
element. This person must therefore begin the prayer from the start. For example;
if one commences his prayer by nodding his head and through the course of his
prayer, he recovers and is able to pray normally, then he cannot complete the
prayer and must start a new one.


VAST hye gab ol phe nm ale gtd sl oe oy


If one suffers from insanity or a loss of consciousness(fainting)for five prayers or
less, then he is liable to make them up. If the prayers missed exceed five, i.e. the
sixth prayer time expires, then he is not liable to make them up.


erally sail bin! §


When Prayer and Fasting Are Excused from One's Responsibility'


slat Y


When Is One Not Required To Make A Will
AB hy be Lea W aah Ve eV stall fo pte dy ay dt ob ١٣}If a sick person dies and was unable to pray through indication(i.e. nodding),
then it is not necessary on him before dying to make a will[wastyyaA]instructing
his heirs to pay the fee for the prayers, even if they were only a few.


dmevally GY! LF ley pay My SLM AS il Ol p pall iS,


This is also the case if a traveller or sick person breaks his fast in the month of
Ramadan, but dies before residence and before sound health. This means, the
traveller died before becoming a resident and the sick person died before
regaining sound health. Verily, they are not required to make a will instructing
their heirs to redeem the lost days, because in both situations they were not in a
position to make up the days.





" It is mentioned through Sacred text, that if one is unable to fast on the day required, then a
fidya(fee)is to be paid; and scholars have agreed that the same applies to prayer. When a
person recovers, he is still liable to make up the unperformed days. The fee is half a measure{sa]of wheat or its equivalent value.[For measurements and weights, see page ٢٨).


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣١


ern


When Is One Required To Make A Will
aod oy ale wile io gl ales


A person who breaks his fast in Ramadan even when he had no reason to break it,
is required to make a will instructing his heirs to pay the fidya for the days he was
able to make up but did not and thus remained a debt upon him until he died.
This means that if the person was capable of making up the days, but did not and
thereafter died, leaving the lost days as a debt, then he is to make a will for those
days which he was able. In the will, this person is to leave instructions for his heirs
or responsible family member to redeem the missed days for him.


ana gl yop ple Ciaaie Syl > Cis JSDLaly oy Sepa SSL LU ye aly ae ded


The heir(or responsible family member)is to pay this debt from the third of the
wealth, which the deceased left, for every day of fasting and every prayer that was
missed, even the witr prayer; the fee to be paid is half a measure of wheat[sa']or
its equivalent value, though the equivalent value is better because of the varying
needs of the poor, and this amount or its equivalent is given for each prayer or
fast missed. If however the deceased does not make a will leaving instructions for
his next of kin, then it is not necessary for his next of kin to pay his debt, though
he is still permitted to do so. And the way to compensate for each day of fasting
that was missed by the deceased is by feeding a poor person as the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))said[Whosoever dies while some fasts of the
month were outstanding against him, the needy should be provided a meal on his
behalf in lieu of the fast of each day];' and with respect to prayer, a single prayer
is regarded like a complete day of fasting, and this is the correct view whilst other
scholars maintain that a whole day of prayer is equivalent to making up one day
of fasting.'


de Ny ce G٥٩ ey hdl ys


And if the deceased did not make a will before dying, but his next of kin pays the
debt on his behalf anyway, it is permissible God willing, for Imam Muhammad
held that if the next of kin pays the due, it is permitted God willing.


ace fa TY ¢ pas ol nes Vy


It is not permissible to fast on behalf of the deceased, nor can one pray on behalf
of the deceased. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[One
cannot fast on behalf of another and one cannot pray on behalf of another,
however, one may feed(others)on his behalf.' As for other narrations contrary to


'Ibn Majah ١٧٥٧
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٦١.
* An-Nasai ٢/١٧٥.


٢٣٢ BOOK It: PRAYER


this, is the saying of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[Whoever died and upon him remained fasts, his custodian fasts them on his
behalf];" verily this has been annulled. Thus, it is not correct for people to give money
to the poor, so that they(the poor person)can fast and pray on behalf of the
dead?"

AS


A Method In Acguitting The Deceased Of His Debt
CW ai tage pb ٦ opp Call ye eid pda)slut U٣ dy ade lee go IL id oly
Liang ental)SI aad be anaairy Sl pill days pd oo ptt etd pia andy oS ands y
ples Mee op call Je ulS Lb bd, o>


If the deceased does not leave enough wealth to suffice what he had directed his
next of kin to pay, then the next of kin is to pay that small amount of wealth to a
poor person, in which case he reduces a portion of the debt owed in prayer and
fasting days depending on the amount he gave, and then after the poor person
takes the wealth, he voluntarily gives it back to the next of kin who collects it.
Then again, the next of kin pays the wealth back to the poor individual in which
case another portion of the debt of the deceased is lifted according to that amount
of wealth. Then the poor individual voluntarily returns the money to the next of
kin who collects it. Then the next of kin pays the money again to the poor
individual in that another portion of the debt has been cleared etc. until the debt
of the deceased owed from the prayers and fasting days are cleared.


qidl das ok
Recipients Of Fidya[Fee
pel SLs y alae ably ret E US GSy Uy tol)Sl plo ٢٥ ole! ٥ yy
It is permissible to give the entire fee[fidya]to one poor person for all the
outstanding prayers, though one cannot do this if he is paying the fee of a broken
oath, because with respect to broken oaths, the payment is specified. Allah says{He(Allah)will call you to account for deliberate oaths: for expiation, feed ten
indigent persons, on a scale of the average for the food of your families].*


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٣


١ yall ead OL


Performing Missed Prayers
wh pS


The Ruling With Respect To The Order Of Prayer(٩٥ Gl)Go tN pill yy BS Sy I Ow Cl


To maintain a sequential order between a missed prayer and the current one is
necessary; that is, one must offer the missed prayer before the current one. If
there are a few missed prayers, the sequential order is also required between the
missed prayers themselves provided they are less than six. For example, if a
person misses the fajr, dhuhr, 'asr and maghrib, then he must perform them in
order and thereafter offer the current prayer, in this case the 'isha. The reason a
sequential order is required is due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))[Whoever missed a prayer due to sleep or forgetfulness and
did not remember it until he was praying with the imam, he must complete the
one he is praying, and then pray the one he missed, and thereafter repeat the one
he prayed with the imam))."


el bin
That Which Excuses The Order
eLtlewrl hin,
The order is excused with one of three things;
OLS y ee Greed oS Il ٥٨


١- The order is excused when the desirable part of the prayer time is insufficient
in allowing the performance of the missed prayers plus the current one, and this is
the most correct view. An example of the disliked times, is the period before
sunset, in which case one may pray the current prayer, then the missed one if he
cannot pray both in the desirable time.
٢- Forgetting is an exception to the order because a person cannot offer something
he cannot remember.

ah ٥ oS Oly ٦ Undine de Yale sil pe Ew sl pill ole b٣],
٣- The third is when the missed prayers become six not including the witr. Verily,
the witr is not a reason to excuse the order even though one must still perform it
in order after the 'isha prayer. Note: The reason the order is excused when a
person misses six prayers is because if one had to repeat them in order, it would
burden him and Islam is opposed to this as Allah said, which means[He has
chosen you, and has imposed no difficulties on you in religion].'


Darqutani ١/٤٢١.
Hajj ٦٨.


٢٣٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Ud! | las yu C٥ ae dy


The sequential order remains excused, even if one performs some of the missed
prayers, so that they are reduced in number, because once the order is excused, it
remains so. For example, if a person has seven missed prayers, the order is
excused. If this person begins to make up the prayers and reduces the seven to
four, the order remains excused.


Led ee fo Ltd a dey Bt> gs Vy


And neither is the order restored if one misses a new prayer after missing six old
ones, for the reason that once the order is excused after six, the missing of a new
prayer does not restore the order and this is the soundest view.


Sy fll day oo ELIS oF UP Ui ys Lda LN sy Jy GUL SID LS ٣ Le gl
ty flay RDN ay oye JF Sy Al gd Oly ode Sy pl oles,[lad Wr e pe Core bo ١ Std
AG jlo y GLE | Sic» oH L


If a person offers an obligatory prayer and during this remembers a missed one,
even if it is the witr, then the prayer becomes invalid in a suspended form. If one
continues to pray five prayers all through which he remembers the missed one,
then all are invalid in a suspended form. When the time of the fifth prayer ends,
which means, the sixth prayer time enters, the prayers are converted to valid
prayers according to Abu Hanifa. And they remain valid, provided the missed
prayer is made up when the #me of the fifth prayer ends, not before. If the missed
prayer is made up before the time of the fifth has ended, then the five obligatory
prayers performed are deemed invalid in essence and stand converted to
voluntary; meaning, the quality of those prayers is no longer regarded as
obligatory, rather they are regarded as voluntary. Consider the following: if a
person begins the 'asr prayer and then remembers he has not prayed the dhuhr.
However, throughout the day, he does not make up the dhuhr; rather he
continues to offer his prayers without making up the dhuhr. He therefore prays
the 'asr, maghrib, isha, fajr and dhuhr of the next day without having made up
the dhuhr he missed. At this point, the new 'asr time arrives. This person
performs wudu and makes up the dhuhr he missed the previous day. The fact that
he made up the dhuhr in this time validates all his prayers after missing the
dhuhr. Though, if he made up the dhuhr before this time, the prayers he prayed
are converted into nafl. See the diagram on the next page.


Note: the reason the prayers became valid is because the fact that they were
labelled as suspended is as though one did not perform them, and the order is
excused after six prayers. Hence, they were suspended due to the order, but
became validated with the dropping of the order.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٥


No٠ Nol
The dhuhr that The afternoon ٧





was missed prayer is
The time of the suspended.
Sifth has ended. No ٢
If the dhuhr is —
made up here, The sunset
the rest become prayer Is
validated suspended
No ٥ No٣
The dhuhr No٤ The night-fall
prayer is ee prayer is
a A


suspended


opal gate rob Ssh ig gi tule pa aged aly old, Skee IS cyuseil cling Cail gill BS ١


If one misses a large number of prayers, it is necessary to make them up until one
predominantly believes that he is free of debt; and during the making up of these
prayers, one is required to specify each missed prayer, such as saying, "I intend to
perform the dhuhr prayer of Tuesday, the ٨" of Rajab ١٣٩٤ AH." However, this
method may entail great difficulty. If however one wishes to simplify the matter,
then he may specify the first dhuhr prayer due on him or the last dhuhr due on
him. The same rule applies when one is observing unperformed fasting of
Ramadan of the past two years. The requirement for specifying in these cases is
one of two correct legal views, which oppose each other. Verily, one view
maintains that specification is required and one view holds that it is not."


Co pal alge At shy lel oy phey


A person who becomes Muslim in enemy land(dar al-harb)and does not pray, or
fast and does not know the requirements of Islamic Law, is excused from having
to make up what he missed because the aim of the law requires the individual to
have knowledge of the compulsory actions, and this is not present in enemy land.
However, Imam Zufar held the view that one is not excused based on his
ignorance.


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٦.


٢٣٦ BOOK Il: PRAYER
day Al Sta}ob


Catching The Prescribed Prayer
DY seg ee alad dra ٥ ٥٢
When Is It And Is It Not Permitted To Cut Off Prayer
ab ¢ po drs dO}Gal y abd te| LI oa Sb bo pie wide ١٣
If one starts an obligatory prayer alone and then the prayer in congregation


commences, he is to cut off his prayer by giving salam standing, and join the
imam provided he had not performed a prostration in the prayer he began alone.


ich)et Gin Jl


And if one prostrates(for the first rak'ah)in other than a four rak'ah prayer, such
as fajr or maghnib, and then the prayer in congregation commences, he is to cut off
his prayer after the prostration by giving the finishing salams, because if he adds
another rak'ah, then he will be deemed as having completed the obligatory prayer for
fajr and maghrib in a technical sense. With respect to the maghrib prayer, completing
the majority of rak'ahs is regarded as completion of the prayer in a technical
sense. It is thus vital not to add a second rak'ah.!


Les fide GIN od ٦ DIL AS OAS I pred pln y AU Sy nd HEL)J dre UI


If one prostrates in a four rak'ah prayer, such as the dhuhr, and then the prayer in
congregation commences, he is to add a second rak'ah to it, then finalise these
two rak'ahs with salams so that the two rak'ahs he performed are regarded as
voluntary prayer; after that, he is to join the group offering his obligatory prayer


in order to secure the merit of praying with the congregation.
pall GY)ase Gaal od LEAT UE Lo of,


If a person has offered three rak'ahs from a four rak'ah obligatory prayer alone,
then he is to complete the prayer because the majority has been performed, and
the major part takes the rule of the whole. After this, he is to join the group with
the intention of offering voluntary prayer, except in the 'asy prayer or fajr, for the
reason that we have been prevented from offering voluntary prayer after the 'asr
and fajr. Therefore, he is not to join the congregation of the fajr or 'asr as a voluntary act.
However, Imam Muhammad maintained that this person is to complete the
remainder of his prayer sitting, so that the prayer is regarded as a voluntary one,
and thereafter join the group prayer and offer the obligatory prayer in a group. In
this manner, one will achieve the merit of the voluntary prayer as well as having
performed the obligatory prayer in a group."


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٨.
٤ Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٧


Ce J dacs[Sti abad ٠٠ gree fF cab IY ol Ol,

If one stands for the third rak'ah(of a prayer consisting of four rak'ahs), thereafter
the prayer in congregation starts before he prostrates for the third rak'ah, he is to
cut off his prayer standing by giving finishing salams(or return to the sitting posture
and give the finishing salams), and this is the most correct view. AsSarakhsy said, "If
one does not return to the sitting posture, the prayer is void, because sitting is
required." Fakhr al-Islam said, "The sound position is that one is to say 'Allahu
akbar' standing intending to begin the prayer of the imam. By this, he will attain
completion of his prayer within his commencing of the prayer of the imam; and if
he wants, he may raise his hands for the takbir.""


PIAS)eh fe her(isl LI)adb gill oF sl bd ¢ bb dea Gal Ly
CF ill da a ga oF oa ٩!


If a person is offering the sunna of the Friday prayer, and then the imam emerges
for the sermon, he is to give the finishing salams after two rak'ahs. This is also the
case if one is offering the sunna of the dhuhr prayer, and then the prayer in
congregation commences; that is, he is to give finishing salams after two rak"ahs.
Following this, one is to complete the sunna after praying the obligatory prayer.


WS٥ pb dot, ٤٩٨ cpl Of andl G VEL ce Je Vy oct! ٢ dee GPL Vy pa oy


If a person arrives at the mosque and finds the imam offering the obligatory
prayer, he is to join the imam and is not to preoccupy himself with the sunna,
except the sunna of the dawn prayer provided he is sure he will not miss the
obligatory prayer with the imam. Indeed, one is to offer the sunna of fajr even if
he is in the mosque, though one should offer it away from the lines of the group
prayer. And even if one is sure he will only catch the tashahhud of the imam, he is
to offer the dawn sunna because it has greater merit than any other sunna prayer.'
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[When the call to
commence the prayer has been announced, there is no prayer except the one
being commenced].* However, this excludes the sunna of the dawn prayer as the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The rak'ahs of fajr are more
loved to me than the world and what it contains]. Though if one fears he will miss
the dawn prayer with the imam by praying the sunna, then he is to leave it and
join the group.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٩.
® Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٠.
٣ Muslim.


٢٣٨ BOOK Il: PRAYER


& yaad! Seall Lad Se
The Ruling Of Making Up Sunna Prayers
we Al eo le ye Y]pall ad,
The sunna of the fajr cannot be made up unless one misses the fajr prayer with it


as well in which case one performs the sunna first, then the fajr prayer. However
Imam Muhammad held that one may offer the sunna after the sun has risen, but
before the sun reaches its zenith. He held that there is no make-up[gada)of the
sunna as the sun is rising or after the dhuhr has enters, which was agreed upon.


anid[٥٠٥٩ ٥ gall ١٥ NEI cad


If one misses the sunna before the dhuhr, he is to make it up before offering the two
rak'ahs which come after the dhuhr prayer, because originally, the sunna of the
four rak'ahs precede the sunna of two rak'ahs. This was the view of the author
which coincides with the majority. Furthermore, the makeup of this sunna is to be
done in the time of dhusr.


WII yas Gat glad Sal pe aS)Soh dele pglall fra Jy


A person is not considered as having offered the dhuhr prayer in congregation if
he only catches one rak'ah with the imam; rather he has caught the superiority
and excellence of the congregation. This person has gained the spiritual
superiority of the congregation, though he has not prayed the dhuhr with the
congregation in reality." This means that is one offers one rak'ah of the dhuhr
prayer in congregation, it cannot be said that one has offered the dhuhr prayer in
congregation. Based on this, if one promises to pray the dhuhr in congregation
and he only offers one rak'ah of it in a group, then he has not fulfilled his
promise. The same rule applies to catching two rak'ahs of the dhuhr prayer; and
this is agreed upon." And scholars differed about the one who catches three
rak'ahs with the imam, whether or not he has made the prayer with the
congregation.


In addition, the reward[thawabd]of the congregation differs to the superiority and
excellence[fad]of the congregation. It is agreed upon that whoever catches one
rak'ah from a four rak'ah prayer — then he does not attain the reward of the
group; rather he attains the superiority and excellence of it. The same rule applies
to catching two rak'ahs in congregation(from a four rak'ah prayer). Scholars
differed with respect to catching two rak'ahs from a three rak'ah prayer as well as
three rak'ahs from a four rak'ah prayer. It is said that in such cases, one attains the
reward[thawab]of the group because one has completed the majority of the
prayer, while others held the contrary."


" Al-Hidayah ١٧٧.
٢ Maraky al-Falah ٢٧١.
* Nur al-Idah ١٥٠.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٩


Branches
WY cd Mog lot ٢ A IS pshey


A person may perform as many voluntary prayers as he likes before the
obligatory one if he is sure its time will not pass. If not, then he is to relinquish
this.


BSNS pty daly PLY aby ٢» ii yy SE LS, wh! Sal coy


If a person finds the imam in the bowing of a rak'ah, and then offers takbir(Allahu akbar)and remains standing until the imam raises his head from the
bowing, then he has not caught the rak'ah and is required to make it up. Note: In
any situation, if the imam raises his head from bowing without the follower
joining him, the rak'ah is considered unperformed and the follower will have to
make it up. Additionally, if the follower is descending into the bowing posture
while the imam raises his head, the same ruling holds. There must be partnership
in the act in order for it to be valid. Ibn Umar((God be pleased with him))said[If
one catches the imam's bowing by joining him in that posture before he lifts his
head, then verily one has caught the rak'ah, and if the imam lifts his head before
one made the bow, then one has lost a rak'ah]."


VV ٦ ene ab ale]٤٥ jal Bat gs ٥ FL PLY Bel ٥ tee aalal Lb aS Ly


If the imam has recited that which is required in prayer(namely, one long verse
or three short verses)thereafter, a follower bows before the imam does, then, if
the imam joins him in the bowing, the followers bow is deemed valid even though
it is prohibitively disliked to proceed ahead of his imam. This dislike is due to the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said((Do not
overtake me in bowing or prostration)).? However, if the imam does not join the
follower in the bowing or the follower bows before the imam completes the
recitation required, then the follower's bow is invalid and he must perform the
bow again, and if he does not and continues the prayer, it is void.°


SPN dele pate OLS ١٣]VI fea cm ٤٥ OST tree ary Ho Sy


It is disliked to depart the mosque after the adhan has been announced until the
prayer is performed, except if one is attending another group prayer such as an
imam or the caller of prayer who is committed to another group prayer. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[One does not leave a mosque
after the adhan, except a hypocrite or a man who had a need and intended to
return].


Dare(٤d Sacer elias gl Gary St fo del bt Codd II)SOY Io te Le dey C= ls


" Abdur-Razak ٢/٢٧٩[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٢].

? Ibn Habban ٣/٦٠٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٢.

* Abu Dawud and al-Baihagi, Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٣.


٢٤٠ BOOK Il: PRAYER


There is no dislike if one departs the mosque after having prayed alone, except if
the congregation commences before his departure for the dhuhr and 'isha prayer;
in these cases, one is to join the group offering voluntary prayer. This is because
one is permitted to join the dhuhr and 'sha with the intention of a voluntary prayer
and another reason is to evade a position of blame and accusation for avoiding
the group prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day must not stand in the position of
being accused(by others)]."


Uplre sue de fre Ys


One is not to offer the same prayer he has already performed. These are the
words articulated in the hadith mentioned by al-Zayla'i, and scholars held
different interpretations as to the meaning. Some said it means: "One cannot pray
the same obligatory twice for the seeking of rewards." Others maintained that it
means: "One must not abandon the prayer and begin a new one the moment he
believes he has ruined it, for the reason that such actions would encourage satanic
whispers." Others maintain it means: "One is not to repeat the obligatory prayer
believing he has not offered the first one properly."


SN d pre
The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness
٩ gl >a rae


The Ruling Of The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness And Its Cause
٢٢S OLy lyfe arly SA edly degre: Ole


If a person forgetfully omits a wajib element of prayer, it becomes necessary to
perform two prostrations, the tashahhud and the finishing salams, and this is all
that is required even if one omits multiple acts.' The prostrations of forgetfulness
was legally established to mend a defect that occurred in prayer and for that
reason it is deemed necessary to perform. The way it is performed is as follows:
when the person sits for the last sitting of prayer the equivalent time of tashahhud,
he is to observe one salam to the right after which he is to perform the two
prostrations. This is followed by the recitation of the tashahhud, ibrahimiyya and
supplication and is concluded with the finishing salams. If one performs the
prostrations of forgetfulness prior to the salam, it is somewhat disliked. Note:


according to the jurists — forgetfulness, doubt and oversight are all regarded as
one and the same in relation to the rule.





' AlAjluni fi Kashf al-Kafa' ٢/٣٣٣[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٣].
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٣.


* The same rule applies if one delays, commits excess or deficiency with respect to a wajib
element, not a sunna one.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤١


lane orl gt ٥ Lif eee
Intentionally Omitting A Necessary |Wajib| Act
Uguati nd BAvall dole]my ٩٦ gil Lee ٤٥ ٥ OS Oly


If one deliberately omits a wajib element, he has sinned and must repeat the
prayer to mend the defect caused by the deliberate action.


Ph SL Ds aS MS ope Bte ooh gh Oyo peat S٥٢ OW GV: La gg tel Gane Vy
oS.)(ld)ye alas o> Mine ٠ Say « SHuall


However, there are some cases where jurists have said, "One is not to perform the
prostrations of forgetfulness for deliberate omissions, except in three situations"
١- If one intentionally omits the first sitting of tashahhud.


٢- If one deliberately delays the prostration from the first rak'ah to the end of the
prayer.


٣- If one intentionally ponders over anything, for an amount of time it takes to
complete a pillar.


Helo pois
When To Perform The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness
pA Le spell o prey SY pas


It is sunna to perform the prostrations of forgetfulness after the finishing salam of
prayer, though it has been stated that this action is wajib. The basis of the Hanafi
view is the report that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Offered
two prostration of forgetfulness whilst seated after the salam]." In addition are the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[For each error are two
prostrations after the salutation].'? Therefore, the Hanafi view holds that it is
sunna to perform the prostrations of forgetfulness after one has offered the salam
of prayer and that it is sufficient to offer them after the first salam to the right
side. Imam Shafi'i on the other hand held that one is to make the prostrations
prior to the final salams due to the report that the Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))[Made the prostrations for error prior to the finishing salams]. It
is recorded by all the six sound compilations. Imam Malik held that prostrations
due to deficiency are made prior to salutation and those due to excess are made
after the salutation.


* Bukhari in the Chapter of Sahu.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٤].
* Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah.


٢٤٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER


be FF ٠S PAN JF tee OB ee tees oo Holy HL eH,


It is sufficient to make the prostrations after offering one salam to the right, and
this is the soundest view and that which the majority of scholars maintain. Their
reasons for this view is that it is superior and precautionary because once a person
has offered both finishing salams, he is permitted to speak; hence, it is best to be
offered after the first salam. It is somewhat disliked to offer the prostrations prior
to the finishing salams of prayer.


When The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness Are Excused


The prostrations of forgetfulness are excused when the sun rises right after one has
offered the salams in the dawn prayer. In other words, if one offers the salam of
prayer before the sun rises and then it emerges, the prostrations are excused.
Likewise, the prostrations are excused if one offers the salams prior to the sun
changing colour in the 'asr prayer, thereafter it changes colour.


eA da ell ane Leo > ٥


Additionally, if one offers the finishing salams and then performs any act that
prevents him from continuing the prayer, such as intentionally breaking wudu
after the salam, or laughing and talking, the prostrations of forgetfulness are
excused. In other words, should one intentionally perform an act after the salam, an
act which would prevent one from continuing the prayer, such as speaking, then
the prostrations are excused.


sage DS yells ¢ yall >


The Ruling Of The Follower(Ma'mum)And Latecomer(Masbuq)In Relation To The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness


o gas Y dala squus a gaall a bbs

The forgetfulness or error of the imam makes the prostrations binding upon the
followers, though if the follower is forgetful, the prostrations are neither binding
on the imam nor the follower. The reason is that if the follower does prostrate the
prostrations of forgetfulness by himself, he would be at variance with the imam,
and the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "Do not be at variance
with your Imams," and the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)said,
"The imam is responsible for you, who lifts off you your forgetfulness and your
recitation."" Another narration states that the Prophet(God bless him and give
him peace)performed the prostrations of forgetfulness and the people performed
the prostrations with him.'


" Abu Dawud, at-Tirmidhi.
* Amda al-Ahkam ٢/٣٦.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤٣


SW Y Laat de ts(CdS greed lee oye Gee be Lad ga gh al]a Syd deny


The latecomer to the group prayer must perform the prostrations with his imam(because he is joined to him)after which he is to rise to make up what he missed
from the prayer.' If the latecomer then makes an error(i.e. he forgets)while he is
making up the actions he missed, he will have to perform prostrations for that
error as well. Though not the one who was with the imam at the start. For
example; person X begins the prayer with the imam, but then falls asleep in the
prayer. When he wakes, he is required to make up what he lost. However, if he
forgets something when making up what he lost, it is compensated for by the
imam without the need of forgetful prostrations on the basis that he began with
the imam whereas the one who arrived late to the prayer and missed a portion of
the prayer with the imam, is required to prostrate for his own forgetfulness,
should he commit one when making up the actions he missed.


ti
Branches


Ctl dS stoSlo pe PLY GLY,


The imam is not to perform the prostrations of forgetfulness in the Friday prayer,
nor for both Eid prayers in order to repel the discord due to the large number of
people.


GAA(Upen ١٣١)٩ ٦ reo gary Sally JI ale BIS gg DL at ake oll ys Ugo pall ot Le ory[sl paw! gy JelS(Sos)One who forgets to perform the first sitting in an obligatory prayer is to return and
sit, provided he does not completely stand, and this is according to the evident
report which is the correct one. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[When an imam stands up at the end of two rak"ahs, if he remembers
before standing straight up, he should sit down, but if he stands straight up, he
should not sit down, but perform the two prostrations of forgetfulness]." And if a
follower(behind the imam)forgets to sit, then his case is like one who offers a
voluntary prayer, he is to return and sit even if he was completely standing,
because he is a follower.


«OY Sale ٢ gree VG ilo glad LI OLS fy yg tone ol past If yay ale ff
Are Lad ٣ cereal alist[SB pel Le ae ole Oly


" Note: before the latecomer rises to make up what he has missed, he should wait until he
knows that the imam is not going to perform prostrations of forgetfulness; though one may
rise after reading the tashahhud when he fears the period of wiping the footgear will
expire, or the time of the Friday prayer will expire, in which cases one does not have to
wait for the imam to give salam.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٦)? Abu Dawud ١٠٣١.


٢٤٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


If the person(who forgets to sit at the first sitting)returns to the sitting posture
after being closer to standing, then he is to perform the prostrations of
forgetfulness. Note: one is regarded as being closer to standing when the bottom
half of the body is straight up, whilst the back is leaning. If on the other hand one
was closer to sitting, then he is not required to offer the prostrations of
forgetfulness. One is regarded as closer to sitting if his legs have not been
straightened. If one returns to the sitting posture after completely standing,
scholars differed whether the prayer is nullified or not, though the clearest report
is that the prayer is sound.


٢ gnill ٢ be poll dregs dey DL ale pV o gall ٣٦ Ge OL


If a person forgets to perform the last sitting and rises for the fifth rak'ah, he is to
return to the sitting posture provided he does not prostrate in the fifth rak'ah, and
must then perform the prostrations of forgetfulness for delaying the compulsory
sitting. It has been narrated that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))[Returned(to the sitting posture)after standing for the fifth, and he
performed prostrations of forgetfulness].


Le ٤d all GANS Vy nd Shula pall D sly cele Of Grol oy Me ٤d she de Of
TeV sped toes Vy ermal


If on the other hand one performs a prostration in the fifth rak'ah(whether it is
done forgetfully or intentionally), then his obligatory prayer is converted into a
voluntary one for the reason that he has engaged in a voluntary prayer before the
completion of the obligatory one. Abu Yusuf held that: the prayer is no longer
regarded as obligatory from the moment one places his hands on the floor for the
prostration in the extra rak'ah, while Muhammad said it is when one's forehead is
raised from the floor; and he may add a sixth rak'ah if he wishes, even if it was in
the 'asr prayer or a fourth rak'ah in the fajr for the reason that it is desirable to
complete this voluntary prayer which was not originally intended. And there is no
dislike for having added these rak'ahs because they were not intended from the
Start, and this is the soundest view. Upon this, one is not to perform the
prostrations of forgetfulness for having left the sitting, because what is rendered
deficient by an invalidating factor cannot be mended." Note: voluntary prayer is
performed as two rak'ahs minimum and for this reason it is desirable to add a
sixth rak'ah or a fourth rak'ah in the dawn prayer.


ST el ond ٤d gh flay free OS Ag tll ole]pe op ples ale — AU od eV o yall ad OL


" Bukhari ١٢٢٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤٥


If however, one performs the last sitting and then stands up without offering the
finishing salams, he is to return and sit and perform the finishing salams without
repeating the tashahhud." And if one prostrates in the fifth rak'ah, it does not
nullify his obligatory prayer because the J/ast sitting has been performed. It is
however, recommended for this person to add another rak'ah to the extra one so
that the additional two are regarded for him as a voluntary act. This is followed
by prostrations of forgetfulness for delaying the final salams.


SSMU Spell ogee lel gy Of Ulead cde eT Lees a dp gest at GD yg UI de ys


If a person has performed the prostrations of forgetfulness in a two rak'ah
voluntary prayer, he is not to add another two rak'ahs upon them, for the addition(of two rak'ahs)nullifies the prostrations of forgetfulness by falling in the middle
of the prayer. Though if one does so(that is, adds an extra two rak'ahs)then he is
to make the prostrations of forgetfulness again and this is the opted view on the


matter.
cents WEL tpg)tree Of cere ٠ nb a SAT pga ale ye ale gS


If a person on whom the prostrations of forgetfulness are required, offers the
finishing salam and at that point is joined by a follower, it is valid(for the
follower)provided the former person(the imam)performs the prostrations of
forgetfulness. If he does not, then the following is invalid according to Abu
Hanifa and Abu Yusuf, though contrary to Muhammad and Zufar. Note; the
follower is to join his imam in the prostrations of forgetfulness."


Say sh WW ٣٦ Se Le ahaa ale Le fy yg Uden


If one forgets a necessary act in the prayer, the prostrations of forgetfulness are
required to mend the defect. And one is required to perform the prostrations of
forgetfulness, even if he deliberately gives salam intending to cut off the prayer;
provided one does not turn away from the qibla or speak(after having offered the
salam). However, it has been maintained by some scholars that turning away from
the qibla does not affect him provided he does not leave the mosque or speak."
Comments: In the event that the prostrations of forgetfulness become due in
order to remove deficiency, one is required to perform the prostrations, even in
the case where one deliberately gives the finishing salam intending to cut off the
prayer and not return to it, even though one remembers what is required of
himself(ie. the prostrations of forgetfulness). In this case, one's salam is disregarded
and does not move one outside the prayer,' and he must perform the prostration





" Note: if one offers the salam standing, it is valid, though one has left the sunna; for it sunna to
give the salam seated.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٨]. However, Al-Hidayah maintains that one is not to
give the salams standing since he has the ability to sit back down and offer them.

? Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩.

٣ Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩.

' This is because the mere intention to change what is lawful and legitimate does not invalidate
it; and the offering of the salam with this intent is disregarded while remembering what is
required of oneself. Hence. one is required to perform the prostration of forgetfulness as the


٢٤٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


of forgetfulness provided he does not turn away from the direction of prayer,
leave the mosque or speak after having observed the salam. Moreover, if one
offers the salam remembering that he owes a prostration from one of the rak'ahs[sajda sulbiyya]or an obligatory act, the prayer is deemed void. The rule in this
regard is clear because the item is a pillar.


SHY deg gil pony re ail be pd ld él of ٢S ste, frm ay ls


If a person praying a four or three rak'ah obligatory prayer gives the final salams
thinking he has completed the prayer, but then learns he has only prayed two
rak'ahs, he is to complete the prayer by praying the rak'ahs he neglected and
make prostrations of forgetfulness.


VV Ly ppl a gree ale Cry ٥)elal pAb O١٥ O]opi med gm pln dy ٠ Kai lb Oy


If a person lengthens his thoughts or daydreams, and delays the final salams until
he becomes aware, then he is required to make prostrations of forgetfulness if this
time delay was equivalent to performing a pillar. If not, then he is not required to
perform prostrations of forgetfulness.


oe, .% .@,
"~° ~ "~


ALA ٥ pai
Doubt During Prayer
Saale pe SLES US gl GLI spo al oe Le yi pay ALS]L٥ OLS ١٥]ELS; ote G LIL Lal fas


If one is uncertain about the number of rak'ahs he has offered before the
completion of the prayer, and this was the first time that doubt had arisen after
acquiring maturity, or doubt which is not a regular occurrence, the prayer is void
and is to be commenced from the beginning. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[If one of you is in doubt as to how many rak'ahs he has
prayer, he is to start afresh].' Imam as-Sarakhsi held that what is meant here is
that doubt is not a regular occurrence. The meaning is not that one does not
forget at all, rather it is not routine.' Therefore, if a person has doubt about the
number of rak'ahs for the first time and then did not have doubt of that kind for
many years; after which it occurred, one is cease the prayer and commence a new
one because it is not a regular occurrence. Moreover, the prayer is to be ended
with actions that are deemed contrary to prayer. It cannot be discontinued with
the intention alone. This indicates that actions contrary to prayer are required.





ihram of the prayer remains, as long as one does not turn away from the qibla or speak.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩].

" Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩ / Ibn Abidin.

* Bukhari and Muslim.

: Maraky al-Falah ٢٨١.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٩٤٧


Furthermore, the text clearly states that the doubt is concerned with the number
of rak'ahs offered, which indicates that if a person for example doubts in the
second rak'ah of the dhusr prayer that he is praying the 'asr and in the third rak'ah
that he is offering a voluntary prayer and in the fourth rak'ah that he is engaged
in the dhuhr, the Hanafi scholars held that he is performing the dhuAr prayer, and
that the doubt is not given consideration in this regard; and this is maintained in
al-Bahr." Moreover, if one doubts whether he has offered prayer or not and the
time of prayer remains, one is required to pray.'


Sally opi OLY]sony Y ae ey SLE gh


If a person's doubt arises after the finishing salams of prayer, then it is
disregarded unless one is certain he has left out an act, namely, a necessary
element, in which case one must make up what he omits. Maraky al-Falah states. If
after the completion of the prayer, one is informed by an upright person that he
has left out a rak'ah, yet the person who offered the prayer is certain that he had
completed it, then the information is disregarded, though if two upright people
inform the person that he has left out a rak'ah, then their information is enacted
upon. And if the imam who lead the prayer differs with those who prayed behind
him; and the imam is certain, then the saying of the followers is disregarded,
though if the imam is not certain, then their saying is accepted.*


PYG Sel yb I be J op cb She foe Ltt So,


If a person's doubt occurs frequently, he is to base his decision upon his
predominant view. If one does not have a predominant view, then he is to take
with the minimum that he knows he has performed and continue from that point.
The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "If someone was forgetful
in prayer, and does not know whether he prayed one rak'ah or two, then he is to
continue from one rak'ah, and if one does not know whether he has performed
two or three rak'ahs, then one is to continue from the second rak'ah, and if one
does not know whether he has prayed three or four, then he is to continue from
three, and one must perform prostrations of forgetfulness before the salams."


OMe ST igb aS)[Saw iy
In the case of continuing from the minimum, one is to adopt the sitting posture(and recite the tashahhud)at each occasion that he believes to be the end of his


prayer so that he does not become like one who is neglecting the obligation of the
sitting posture."


" Hashia Ibn Abidin ٥/٣٩٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨١

: Maraky al-Falah ٢٨١.

* Tirmidhi ٣٩٨.

* Al-Hidayah ٨٢ / Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٢.


٢٤٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


Furthermore, if one is certain that he has acquired the state of minor impurity[Aadath]and he has doubt about whether he is pure, then he is regarded as being
in a state of minor impurity. If one is certain he is pure and has doubt about being
in a state of minor impurity, then he is deemed pure. This corresponds to the base
rule that certainty is not removed with doubt. Moreover, if one doubts some of
the aspects of his wudu and this is the first time it had come to mind(meaning it
is not regular), then one is to wash the place of concern. If the doubt is frequent,
one is to disregard it. The same applies to the wiping of the head.'


BS ٩ yee OL


The Recital Prostration


There are verses in the Quran that if recited, require the reciter to prostrate as well as the one
who hears its recitation. There ave three conditions that validate the recital prostration and
they are: ١)to be pure from minor impurity and physical defilement, ٢)One must face the
direction of prayer, ٣)and one must cover his nakedness, i.e., the awrah of the male and female
must be covered. The pillar of the recital prostration is to place the forehead on the ground.
And its ruling is as follows: if it is recited in prayer, it is necessary to perform immediately.
And if it is recited outside of prayer, then it is necessary to perform, but may be slightly delayed,
though is disliked. Additionally, it cannot be performed with tayammum unless the conditions
of tayammum are satisfied.


dnS> ٩ By AS > pre
The Cause Of The Recital Prostration And Its Ruling
be opel o Sy Beall dS dO! HLA be Coly gay. ermal d Lally SU Ue sy Mall a.


The reason for the prostration of recital is due to the reader who recites one of its
verses and the listener who hears it; and this is the soundest view. The recital
prostration is wajid to perform and may be slightly delayed according to Imam
Muhammad if it is recited outside of prayer, although it is somewhat disliked to
delay from its time. Abu Yusuf held one narration from Imam Abu Hanifa; that it
is wajib to prostrate immediately for one who recites one of the verses of
prostration. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said(The


prostration is(obligatory)for one who hears it and for one who recites it}.?
Wh ٥!)UW oy dees


The prostration becomes wajib upon anyone who recites one of its verses, even if
it is recited in Persian or in any other language and this is agreed upon.


Cea SAS ٦ Lgl ops ote sh dG LIS ae Be i> tel iy


" Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٣٤.
' Ibn Abi Shaybah from Ibn Umar. Al-Dalai', vol. ٢, ١٧٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤٩


Reciting a letter of the word 'sajda' with the word before it or the word after, from
the verses which require prostration, is regarded as recitation of the entire verse
and one must therefore prostrate according to the soundest view. Though it has
been mentioned that one is not required to prostrate unless he recites the majority
of the verse of prostration. Additionally, it is held in the book MukAtasar al-Bahar.
that if a person recites the word "Wasjud" - which means — but prostrate, and then
pauses and does not recite the word "Waktarib" — which means; and bring yourself
closer, then he is required to prostrate.


stow! oul


The Verses Of Prostration
٢٩ tdmendly ally OG My etl Say eagle ly rad te Shy SL eV Gauls te eM leUly
Vly cats pry Bm ams
The Verses of prostration are fourteen and they are in the following surahs;


١)Al-A'raf. ٢)Ar-Ra'ad. ٣)An-Nahl. ٤)AlIsrah. ٥)Maryam. ٦)The first mention
of sajda in the surah al-Hajj, not the second mentioning of sajda in the same
surah. However, Imam Shafi'i held there are two prostrations in al-Hajj.' ٧)AF
Furqan. ٨)AlNaml. ٩)As-Sajda. ١٠)In the surah Sod upon reading the following
words:[(he)fell down, bowing(in prostration)and turned to Allah in repentance].
Verse ٢٤. Although some scholars state the prostration is required at the words,[And a beautiful place of(final)return]. Verse ٢٥. ١١)Ha Mim Sajda(or Fussilat).
One is to prostrate upon reciting or hearing the words in surah Fussilat,[And
they never flag(nor feel themselves above it]Verse ٣٨, although, Imam Shafi'i
held that it is at the words[If it is Him that you wish to serve]. Verse ٣٦. ١٢)An-
Najm. ١٣)AlInshiqaq ١٤)Al-'Alag.


" Al-'Alaq, ١٩[Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٤].
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٤.


٢٥٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


abe HEY ٢٩ ٨A ٢ pre ale HE oy
Who Is Required To Prostrate
CAs oye FL SL)٤ Sard y PLY yo eLaally ANY]٦ ell duets d Oly poe oe Je opty


The prostration of recital becomes wayib when one hears it, even if he does not
intend to hear it, and the ruling is the same whether one understands its meaning
or not, as is reported from many of the great Companions, God be pleased with
them all. However, this excludes a female experiencing menstrual periods or post-
natal bleeding(that is, they are not required to prostrate if they hear its
recitation)." And neither is the imam or his followers to prostrate if they hear it
from a follower behind this imam or from a follower of another imam. For
example, if the dhuhr prayer is being prayed, and one of the followers behind the
imam recites a verse of prostration that is heard by the imam and followers, they
are not required to prostrate. On the other hand, if a person outside the prayer
hears it from a follower who is offering prayer, then the person outside the prayer
is required to prostrate."


dahy Male ٣ eee aw dy aif dpb Lyte gly Beall ey Lyte one op Laren gly
If the imam and his followers hear the verse of prostration from another person
who is not praying, they are to prostrate after the prayer. If they prostrate in the
prayer, it will not suffice but their prayer remains sound according to the most
apparent view in this regard."
decal fo lgags of Qjlall pl #٥

Hearing the verse of prostration in Persian or any other language and
understanding it, makes it necessary to prostrate. Indeed, this ruling is the one
relied upon. This is what Imam Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf held though
Abu Hanifa said it is necessary even if one does not understand its meaning but
was informed to prostrate.*


OF SE oe lk ery dd eal ly


Experts differed whether a person is required to prostate if he hears the verse of
prostration from a sleeping or insane person, i.e. one may have uttered the words
while sleeping. As-Sarakhsy said that it is not necessary because the recitation of it





" This means that the prostration is not required of a menstruating woman or one suffering
from postnatal bleeding should they recite it or hear it from others. Though if one hears the
recitation from them, then others are required to prostrate. With respect to a person in a state
of janaba(sexual impurity). if he recites a verse of prostration or hears it from others, then he
must prostrate. And if others hear the verse recited from him, then they must prostrate as well.
Additionally, if it is heard from a disbeliever or a boy(capable of differentiating), then one is
required to prostrate.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦}.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.

: Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥١


will not be correct given the absence of differentiation(from the sleeping or
insane person). Furthermore, if it is recited from an intoxicated person, it
becomes imposed upon him to prostrate as well as those who hear it from him.


Sarally plat ope pela FV)The prostration of recital is not necessitated if it is heard from a bird or an echo.
A person may have a pet bird that mimics others.


Gey SSNS oy Gop est Gh


With What Thing Can The Prostration Be Carried Out? And When To Perform It


The verse requiring prostration can be recited and offered within a prayer and
outside a prayer. If it is recited outside of prayer, it is not required immediately
and may be delayed for some time. Though if one reads it, but performs it after
concluding his recitation or one hears it being recited from another person and
then travels home and prostrates, then he has fulfilled it. However, it is somewhat
disliked to delay the prostration from the time of its recitation without an excuse,
because one may forget it with the passing of time.

If it is recited within prayer, it is required immediately; and the one praying may
either conclude his recitation with the verse of prostration, at which point it is not
conditional that he offer a specific prostration for it; rather he may offer it in the
original bowing of the prayer if he intends to perform it in that posture. Likewise, if
he concludes his recitation with the verse of prostration, then he may offer it in
the original prostration of the prayer, whether he intends to execute it within that
posture or not.


However, if one does not conclude his recitation with the verse of prostration, and
reads three verses or more after it, then one must now offer a specific prostration
for what he read and the original prostration of prayer does not suffice. And after
having offered a specific prostration, it is recommended that one rise and recite at least
three verses or more, then bow and conclude the remainder of his prayer.'


lad pry sal £٩٩ Beall ٣ > ٣ f° ٢ S٣٩


The prostration of recital may be carried out with either an additional bow or
additional prostration in the prayer, other than the original bowing or prostration
of prayer. It is however recommended to execute the prostration of recital with a
prostration and not a bow. And if the prostration verse is the last verse one reads,(after which one offers a specific prostration for his recitation), then he is to recite Quran
after rising from it, even if it is two verses from another surah. This is so one does
not construct the bowing upon the prostration immediately upon rising from it. If
however, one rises from it and then immediately bows, it is disliked."


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.
? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini, ٣٣٥.
> Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٧.


٢٥٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER





Lal pO}Seal ¢ ٥٥)lee es jt
In the case where one stops reading immediately after reciting the verse of
prostration; or does not read more than two verses after reciting it, then it can be
carried out with the original bowing of prayer, provided one intends it within that
posture. Meaning, the original bowing of prayer suffices provided one intends to
execute the prostration of recital in that posture.[Maraky al-Falah states. To avoid
confusion amongst the followers, the imam of a prayer as well as his followers are
to carry out the recital prostration within the original bowing of the prayer. The
same applies to a silent prayer." Moreover, it is mentioned in at-Tatarikhiyya that if
one recites the verse of prostration in a silent prayer, then it is better to fulfil the
obligation during the bowing posture in order to prevent confusion amongst the
people; and if the prayer is an audible one, then to offer prostration for the
recitation is superior."
cell oe SSL SIS gb ebay ١G CD by ١ Oly Dopey

It is also accomplished with the original prostration of prayer even if one does not
intend to carry it out in that posture, provided one concludes his recitation with
the verse of prostration and does not read more than two verses after reciting it.
In other words, if one concludes his recitation with the verse of prostration and does not read
more than two verses after reciting it, then he may carry out his obligation in the original
prostration of the prayer even if he did not intend it therein. However, if one recites more
than two verses after reciting the verse of prostration, then it can no longer be
carried out with the original bowing or original prostration of the prayer; rather
one must now offer a specific prostration or a specific bow for what he read.'


dpe SS SI OL BSG BAI oe tree ٥ FT AAS)Deal gd ee pile hi pel os Qe ys
Weel rtnnny Wi[SDS jade gles UpenS yp lao grees dey ay GATT OLy ٦ ae dees Ub aed


If a person hears the recital prostration from an imam, and did not become a
follower at all or he does become a follower joining the imam in a rak'ah of prayer
that did not include the recitation and performance of the prostration, then the
hearer is to prostrate alone after the prayer according to the most evident view.
Though if the person joins the imam before he prostrates, then he is to prostrate
with the imam. Whereas, if the person joins the imam after he prostrated, though
his joining was in the same rak'ah the verse was recited in, then the person is
judged as having accomplished the prostration as he has caught the rak'ah and is
under no obligation to make the prostration. For example, if a person hears the
verse in the first rak'ah, but joins the imam in the second, then he is to prostrate
after the prayer. If a person joins the imam before he prostrates for the verse, he is
to prostrate with him. If a person joins the imam after he prostrates, though it is
in the same rak'ah he recited the verse and performed its prostration, then he has
accomplished the prostration by catching the rak'ah.


Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٧.
* Radd al-Muhtar.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٧.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥٣


rs all at ds


A verse of prostration that is recited in the prayer must be carried out in the
prayer. If not, then it cannot be made up after the prayer. Additionally, one must
repent for intentionally leaving it.


Bly MAU J bdoly ais Vl trey LOLs ٦ gel te Up ted aed Tall cE WH Sy


If a person recites a prostration verse outside of prayer and then prostrates, and
then enters prayer and recites it once more, then he is to prostrate again, though
if he did not prostrate for the first one, then the prostration in the prayer suffices
for the two according to the most evident view on the matter. In other words, the
one performed in the prayer suffices for the two on the basis of its strength. Note:
this rule applies on the condition that one recites both verses in the same sitting;
for if one changes his sitting between the two recitations, then two prostrations are
due. Equally, if one performs the prostration of recital in the prayer, and then
recites it after the salam of prayer, then he is to prostrate once more on the basis
that the one performed in the prayer has legally ended; this is according to the
most evident view on the matter."


ele Yo ly le GLO S ٣S


This is also the case for a person who repeats a prostration verse in the same
sitting, in that one prostration suffices for the repetition." Though this does not
apply for two different sittings;[this means that if one recites the prostration verse
in two separate sittings, then the performance of one prostration is not sufficient,
since there are two places where the duty of prostration must be fulfilled].


uel! «@ Jie b ob


When Is A Sitting Replaced
Lane gly ae SUL lel Judy


A sitting is replaced with another when one simply moves away from the first area
to a distance of three steps. This is also achieved by tasd#yya, which is the manual
process of making carpets or material. Such a person takes material or fibres and
places it through posts fixed to a wall or floor and goes back and forth with such
fibres. Indeed, such movements exchange the first sitting. With respect to the first
point of moving away the distant of three steps, this is when one is on open land,
desert, or a road.'


ee DS Ge al ge Be ss pat dt pat op SEL,





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.
٢ That is, one prostration suffices for a person who recites a verse of prostration twice in the
same sitting. Note: the word sitting is the translated word of majlis. It is described as an area
that one may occupy for a duration of time and then depart from. For example; one's first
sitting was the swimming pool, though after exiting the pool, one's sitting is altered or replaced.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.


٢٥٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Likewise, it is replaced if one moves from one branch to another, or by exiting a
swimming area in a river or in a large reservoir, and this is the soundest view.


otal a Jan YL
That Which Does Not Alter A Sitting
SS ly Jas Vy


A sitting is not replaced by moving from one corner of a small house to another.
Meaning, that one may read the verses of prostration or hear it a number of times
and yet one prostration suffices in this sitting for all the recitations and hearings.


VS vs dnl,


Likewise, moving from one corner of the mosque to another does not replace the
first sitting even if the mosque is a large one because a person can be a follower
anywhere in the mosque where there is space.


ae rw Vy


Being on a moving ship does not alter a sitting, and the same ruling applies if it is
motionless.'(ead py)Gls SYS Sy SS(٤S)Ja(V٥)A sitting is not replaced by offering a rak'ah of prayer in which a verse of
prostration is repeated. This means that if one recites the verse of prostration
more than one time in the same rak'ah, one prostration suffices. This point is
agreed upon. Likewise, a sitting is not replaced by offering two rak'ahs of prayer
in which the verse of prostration is repeated according to Abu Yusuf, though
contrary to Imam Muhammad. In other words, if one recites a verse of
prostration once in one rak'ah and once more in the second rak'ah, the sitting
does not change according to Abu Yusuf, while it does to Muhammad. Therefore,
one prostration suffices according to Abu Yusuf.'


Sig JE G٩ ٩ ٩٥٩٩ Pld ٩ pry GL Vy Wi gh gong cad ISL a٢,
Drinking, eating two mouthfuls, or walking two steps does not replace a sitting.
Likewise, it is unchanged by leaning on something, or sitting and standing in the
same spot, or by mounting and dismounting a beast in the place one recites the
verse of prostration.


Lar(٠)S١٥١)cals ww Vy


A sitting is not replaced if one repeats the verse of prostration in his prayer upon
his moving beast.


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.
: Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥٥


ce fe a Se V Slt le ttt iy de pt eal fe esl Ky


If the sitting of the listener changes and not that of the reciter, then the obligation
of prostrating will be repeated for the listener. Meaning, the listener hears the
verse of prostration in one sitting, and then changes sittings and hears the verse
again from the reciter who has not moved. Hence, the reciter remains in the same
place whereas the listener does not. In this case, the obligation of prostrating is
repeated for the listener. Though if the listener remains in the same sitting, while
the reciter does not, then it is not necessary for the listener to prostrate twice as
One suffices for the two, and this is the most correct view.


t٣?
Branches
aSKe Voit Sal pu yiy pl b oles,


It is disliked to recite a surah and leave out the verse of prostration, whereas the
Opposite is not disliked. This means that one may read the verse of prostration
leaving out the rest of the surah, and there is no dislike in such practice.


Us}st lal ous
Upon reciting a verse of prostration, it is recommended to add another verse of


Quran to it. The reason is to prevent the assumption that one verse is greater than
another, wherein reality they are all the words of Allah."


Boake Fe ajls!low,


It is preferable to silently recite the prostration verse from people who are not
ready or ardent to perform it, i.e. they may not have ablution or may be too tired


to perform it.
pra Vy pagdl Sl ٥ Vy YSU bi gee eds lL ade Vy Wo yl welwlon,
I plS ٢S Opto. lee YL

When a person is offering the prostration of recital, it is recommended to stand
for it, and then prostrate as A'ishah(God be pleased with her)performed. Umm
Salama(God be pleased with her)narrated[I saw A'ishah reading the Quran and
if she passed by a verse requiring prostration, she stood up and then prostrated].'
And the hearer of the verse is not to raise his head from the prostration before the
reciter. Note: In reality, there is no group performance for the recital prostration,
but it is preferred for the reader to prostrate first for he is the first person to
respond to what he recites; and the reciter of the verse is not to be ordered to
advance forward, and the listeners are not to be ordered to line up in rows.
Rather, they prostrate as they are when they hear it.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩١.
* Al-Baihaqi ٢/٣٢٦.


٢٥٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


a AS itr by -


Conditions Of The Recital Prostration
da pel Y]ball bat Ural b ty


The conditions which validate the recital prostration are the same conditions of
prayer, with the exception of the opening Allahu akbar.


BAS > pre RS


How To Perform The Recital Prostration
rs Vey gt Vy ٦ by We Oe A OS SS yy Bed Bde dre OF Lady


The recital prostration is performed as such; the individual prostrates once,
between two takbirs that are sunna There is no recitation of tashahhud or
finishing salams(i.e. one is to say one takbir and descend into prostration and
thereafter say the second takbir upon rising from the prostration, and during the
prostration, one should say three times "Glory be to my Lord most high."


Nid ٣ ed
The Prostration of Gratitude
PrN ide pS
Its Ruling
BB pt Ole Lal Wy SINUS F٥٩٠ Uple Ole Y dil amy die Gl PLY te day Se SI te
Upele my


The prostration of gratitude is disliked according to Imam Abu Hanifa, in which
one is not rewarded for doing, and its abandonment is better.? However, Imam
Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf held: "It is an action that brings one closer to Allah
in which one is rewarded for performing." Abu Bakr((God be pleased with him))said[When anything came to the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))which
caused pleasure(or by which he was made glad)he prostrated himself in gratitude
to Allah].' Imams Shafi'i and Ahmad held that the prostration of gratitude is
legally valid. Malik does not take it as legal, while Abu Hanifa said it is not
recommended. According to some scholars, ablution is necessary for this


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٢.

* Scholars gave several reasons as to why Abu Hanifa held this view. These include: Abu Hanifa
did not see this act as an act of full gratitude, and that complete gratitude is attained through a
prayer consisting of two rak'ahs as Prophet Muhammad did on the day of Fat'h Makkah. As for
what is related regarding the Prophet prostrating if he saw affliction and suffering, this is
abrogated.[Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٤٠].

* Abu Dawud ٢٧٦٨.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥٧


prostration and according to others, it is not. Ibn Qayyim said, "It appears from
the prostration made by Ka'ab Ibn Malik that it was customary among the
Companions to make prostrations when they received good tidings." Abu Bakr((God be pleased with him))made this prostration when he was informed of the
murder of Musailamah. Umar((God be pleased with him))prostrated when
Yarmuk was conquered. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))also
prostrated several times on such occasions."


How It Is Performed
Bg AT Btw fre gray


The prostration of gratitude is performed similarly to that of the recital
prostration along with its conditions that are the same as prayer, such as purity.


dogs JS pis)dogs sus
A Vital Benefit That Prevents(Repels)Calamities
al Le dil iS Lge JSS Aree yg doly lt GUIS ctr SINS os SIS el PLY! JU


Imam an-Nasafy states in his book Al-Kaafy. Whoever recites in the same sitting alll
of the prostration verses with the intention of reciting all of them, and makes one
prostration for each of the recitations, Allah will save him from whatever he is
troubled with[from the matters pertaining to this life and the hereafter, and many
scholars are of this view].


٠,
"se
e,
"٢°
@,
"


" Abu Dawud ٢٧٦٩.


٢٥٨ BOOK II: PRAYER
dnatl Lo UL


The Friday Prayer
dat! Al pl by

Conditions That Obligate The Friday Prayer

Aah hae ٤h paced ope Je ne ٢ dead Be
The Friday prayer is individually obligatory upon one who satisfies seven
conditions. It is established in the Quran, Sunna, and Consensus of the scholars(ijma). The one who rejects it is a non-believer. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said((Bear in mind that Allah has made compulsory for you the
Friday prayer at this place of mine, on this day of mine and during this month of
mine and in this year of mine, until the Day of Resurrection. He who abandons it
during my lifetime or after, while he has a just or tyrant ruler, making little of it(the prayer)or denying it, Allah will not unite his gathering, nor will He bless his
affairs. Be aware that his prayer will not be valid nor will his zakat or hajj; nor will


his fasting nor his virtues be accepted as long as he does not repent. So he who
repents, Allah will restore for him His grace(and forgive him))."


Aneto yrs by
Conditions That Render The Friday Prayer Obligatory
٤ Aly ٨, Sil


١- One must be male(therefore excluding females)and ٢- Freedom(therefore
excludes slaves).


reo ble HUY > belo ya i sl pan LEY,


٣- One is to be a resident in a city or in a place where one is regarded as a resident
of the city, such as living in the courtyard that is adjacent to the city. This is the
correct view. This is the place that if one crossed with the intention of travel, he
would be deemed a traveller; and if one reached this point after returning from
travelling, he would be deemed a resident. Therefore, if one is a resident of a
small town outside the city, Friday prayer is not compulsory on him. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[There is no Friday(prayer), nor the
prayer of Eid al-Fitr or Eid al-Adha except in a city or large town].? The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))also said[The right of the Friday prayer is
upon all Muslims except four: the possessed, the female, a boy and the sick]and
in another place in al-Bayhaqi, it states[and with the exception of the boy, the


" Ibn Majah ١٠٨١.
' Al-Baihaqi ٣/١٧٩, Sunan al-Kubrah.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٥٩


possessed and the traveller]." Hence, a person living in a small village outside the
city is not obligated to attend the Friday prayer, but the person living within the
city or a place where he is regarded as being a resident of the city, is duty bound
to attend."

cally


٤ To be of sound health, and free from illness. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[The Friday prayer in congregation is a necessary duty on
every Muslim, with four exceptions; a slave, a woman, a boy and a sick person].*
Friday prayer is not obligatory on the traveller, though if he hears the call, it is
preferred that he attend.

Mb ee YW


٥- Safety from an oppressor is the fifth condition. The Friday assembly prayer is
not necessary upon one who fears an oppressor.


eles


٦- One's eyes must be sound, i.e. to possess the ability of reliable sight. Friday
prayer is not obligatory upon a blind person, according to Abu Hanifa. Though
this is contrary to Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf who said, "If he can find
someone to take him, then he is required to attend."*


cnb- Us


٧- Soundness of one's legs, ie. one must have the ability to walk. Friday prayer is
not compulsory on one who is crippled and this is agreed upon in the Madhhab.°


dactl dove by -
Conditions That Validate Friday Prayer
eLtlinn ood b pty
There are six conditions that validate Friday prayer;
٠٥a gl pall
١- It is to take place in the city or in its courtyard, such as an area used for the


benefit of the people like a park. The performance of the Friday prayer is valid in
many places within the city.


ask sl UaL SI)٢- It is conditional that the prayer be conducted by the sultan as imam, or his
deputy.


" Al-Baihaqi ٣/١٨٣, Sunan al-Kubrah.
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٦.

> Abu Dawud ١٠٦٢.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٦.

° Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٦.


٢٦٠ BOOK It: PRAYER


amy ou Seiy LS ei Ws phil ody)٣- It must take place at the time of dhuhr. Anas Ibn Malik said: The Apostle of
Allah((God bless him and give him peace))used to offer the Friday prayer when
the sun declined.' According to Abu Hanifa, Malik and Shafi'i, the time for
Friday prayer is after the sun passes the meridian. It is not lawful before it. It is
not valid before the entry of the dhuAr time and neither after the dhuhr time ends,
which means if one is praying the Friday prayer and the 'asr time enters, the
prayer is nullified.
less J eset li dbs,

٤- The sermon must be before the Friday prayer for the purpose of the Friday
prayer,' and the sermon is to be delivered in its time. If the imam gives the
sermon before its time, it is not valid.


Cereal aly gly teed ge dies opt el tol y wary


From those who are obliged to attend the Friday assembly prayer, there must be
at least one person from amongst them who is able to hear the speech of the
imam, even if it is only one person, and this is the correct view. This is regardless
if he is mute, asleep, or whether he is a slave, ill or a traveller, even if he is in
major impurity and then after the speech performs the major bath, there must be
at least one individual who has the ability to hear the speech.


ell oy,


٥- General consent from the leader is conditional. Indeed, this is from the signs of
Islam and something specific to the religion. If for example, an imam closed the
doors of his castle or the place in which he and his companions pray, then(the
Friday prayer)is not permitted. However, if he permits the people to enter, it is
valid."


> PLY as wr lay b Sy ٥٥ + gl op lan shane Ils lye PUY ne Ske)BW pay dell,
allay ٠٩ yrs bly i OL yc dam o> y[gil ٠d pres aly pt OID ¢ dry


٦- There must be a group present. This is achieved with three men besides the
imam, even if the men are slaves, travellers or are all suffering from an illness. It
is also a condition that they remain with the imam until he performs the first
prostration, and if they leave the prayer after this, the imam is to complete the
Friday prayer. Though if they leave the prayer before this(i.e. before the first
prostration)the prayer is nullified. And even if only one person leaves before the


" Abu Dawud ١٠٧٩.

* This means that the imam must deliver a sermon which is intended for the Friday assembly
prayer. Therefore, if the Imam sneezes and utters the words "al:-Hamdulillah" due to sneezing, it
does not serve as a substitute for the sermon; because these words were not intended for the
Friday prayer, rather, they were for sneezing; and for this reason, the objective of the sermon
must be for the Friday prayer.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٧].

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٨.


BOOK Ii: PRAYER ٢٦١





first prostration and two remain, the prayer is nullified as held by Abu Hanifa,
whereas Imam Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf stated that the three men are
required only for the opening Allahu akbar.


cnn)eo ee Hil pl mai Vy
The Friday prayer is not valid with a female or boy included with two men; three


men are required since women, and boys do not satisfy the conditions that
obligate the Friday prayer.


ped p٥٢ ot pas My tad ley


It is permitted for a slave, ill person or traveller to lead the Friday prayer as the
imam, if he has permission from the leader.


Ny DI Alb Sg Sad cheb yc a ytbl olsy KEW diy oy wly ciel eo ye JS pall,


A comprehensive city, according to Abu Hanifa is a place that has a mufti, leader,
and a judge who implements the law and establishes the hudud(penalties). In
addition, the number of buildings must be equal to the number of buildings in
Mina according to the most evident view. Imam Qadikhan held that this view has


consensus.

Shia ٦ el ete VI gh otal OlS Naty
In the event that the judge or leader is a mufti, then either one is sufficient for all
three roles; i.e. the judge who is a mufti can assume the role of a judge, mufti and


leader. This implies that having one of these persons in an area would render it as
a city provided the buildings amounted to that of Mina.


ited pl(LD pall G parted oiler


The Friday prayer is permitted in Mina during the days of hajj provided it is
conducted by the khalifa or the leader of the Hijaz area.
\grmey dybad|
The Sermon And Its Sunan
dal SUI ps ided shims pod Lo thd b Lad aes
If the imam limits the Friday sermon to that of an invocation, such as one tasbih(Glory be to Allah - Subhan Allah)or one tahmid(All praise be to Allah - Al
Hamdulillah), it is valid, though is disliked because the sunna has not been
fulfilled. Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said; that the sermon must be at
least as long asa lengthy remembrance, long enough to be identified as a sermon{which is at least as long as the tashahhud." Imam Shafi'i maintained that it is not


permitted unless he delivers two sermons that conform to practice. He used as his
basis, the words of Allah[Hasten earnestly to the remembrance of Allah].'





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٩.
? Quran, ٦٢-٦٩.


٢٦٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER
bs Ae ald ddl ny
The Friday sermon consists of eighteen sunan,;(REI day)BY aay Sy OW y SHANG py SI AS fo fo pe gly ٥ yall Ae y Sylghell


١- To be in a state of purification when delivering the sermon is sunna. It is only
deemed sunna and not obligatory because the sermon is not the prayer.


٢- Clothing one's nakedness during the sermon.
٣- To sit upon the pulpit before commencing the sermon.


٤- It is sunna to call the adhan in front of the pulpit, just like the iqama is made in
front of the pulpit after the sermon.


lwlee cows BAL, GG yd ob pe Coed BL YS gate US o Ly actly aol ٦


٥- After the adhan, the imam stands to deliver the sermon leaning on a sword in
his left hand, which is the method observed in all countries that were conquered
by force. Though if the country was taken or occupied peacefully, then the imam
does not adopt the sword. The wisdom of the sword is to show the people in what
way the nation was overcome, and that if the people denounce their Islam, then
that land remains in the hands of the Muslims, in which they may resume
fighting. However, the Madina of the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))was opened with the Quran, and as a result the sermon is given without
the sword."


dey ¢ Al Sims
G- Facing the people is sunna as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed with his Companions during sermon.
abel ya ly ade eLittly dit torn wel
٧- It issunna to begin the sermon with praising Allah(a/-Hamdulillah), followed by
glorification which is befitting for God.
dal ٣
٨- It issunna to declare the two testimonies of faith[shahadatayn].
poh he il fro gill idee Je sally

٩- This is followed by sending blessings upon our holy Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))which is sunna.

Saslly aanlly
١٠/١١- It is sunna to advise the people about abstaining from disobedience to


Allah or to frighten the people about the punishments of the hereafter, and
remind them about their duties to Allah and dealings with others etc.


"M araky al-Falah ٣٠٠.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٦٣





ON al os Uf del ٥ ٥
١٢- To recite a verse from the Holy Quran is sunna. It is reported that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))recited Quran in his serrmon{and fear the
Day when you shall be brought back to Allah}." The majority of scholars hold that
the imam is to seek refuge with Allah from Satan the rejected before recitation.
However, he is not to say the tasmiyya[bismilahi arRahmani ar-Rahim| unless he is
going to recite the whole surah, in which case he is to say it as well."


liber y
١٣- Conducting two sermons is sunna for the reason that it has been the


occurrence from the Prophet"s time until now((God bless him and give him
peace)).


cnet! ou ltl,


١٤ It is sunna for the imam to sit for a moment between the two sermons to the
extent of three verses of Quran.


as ab}elacl ble y ale ail be Ga fe dna elt. dot]dale],


١٥- To repeat the praises and glorifications of God including the blessings upon
the Prophet at the beginning of the second sermon.


١٦- In the second sermon, it is sunna for the imam to make supplications of
forgiveness for the believing men and women.


Abd ¢ sil ae Oly


١٧- It is sunna for the people to listen to the sermon. It is sufficient if one attempts
to listen but is unable due to a long distance or another cause. Should one be
unable to hear the sermon, it suffices though silence is required.


praall Spb ope by ge yt Cnrred eat y


١٨ It is sunna to curtail the duration of the two sermons equivalent to the
recitation of a surah from the long part of the mufassal section which is any surah
from surah al-Hujurat to surah al-Buryj.


rep gt Ags pyle Ses


It is disliked to lengthen the sermons or to abandon one of its sunt


" Al-Bagarah ٢٨١.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٠.


٢٦٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


When Is One Required To Attend The Friday Prayer
ce GIZYI OBYG eal Sy ea ato te ped Es


It is obligatory to proceed towards the Friday prayer in a tranquil state and leave
buying and selling when the first adhan is called. Note: the author used the
Arabic word sa 'ty, which means to hasten in order to correspond with the words of
Allah(When the call to prayer is proclaimed on Friday, hasten earnestly to the
remembrance of Allah and leave off business and trade]. Though what he
intended, is to proceed to the Friday prayer walking in a tranquil state due to
words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[If the prayer
has been announced, do not come to it hastily, but rather come whilst you are
walking tranquilly]."


Branches
on. OP Ek > ISVs Dee W PLY = la}y


When the imam emerges usually from the room near the pulpit, in order to
deliver the sermon, there is no more prayer and no talking until the imam
completes the Friday prayer. This is the saying of Abu Hanifa as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Even saying to your companion 'listen'
while the imam is giving the sermon on Friday is to speak foolishly].? Though
Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said, "There is no harm if one talks when the
imam emerges provided one ceases before the imam speaks." And if the imam
orders the blessing upon the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)), then
one may utter it silently. By doing so, one will attain two merits; one for listening
to the sermon and the other for sending blessing upon the Prophet. Likewise, if
one sneezes, he is to praise Allah within himself. Indeed, the implemented and
relied upon ruling in the Hanafi school is that speaking is prohibited(whether one
is distant from the imam or close to him); for the reality is that the person distant
from the imam takes the same ruling as the one close to him. One is therefore to
listen and remain silent.*


OUIW, Lastly SAS ISM: St! ol ٠S


Eating, drinking, fidgeting with an object or something similar as well as looking
around is disliked for the one attending the Friday sermon. One should observe
what he observes in prayer and refrain from what he refrains from in prayer.


Lb le cots Vy bn on Vy


" Bukhari ٩٨, Muslim ١٢٤٩.
٢ Muwattah of Imam Malik ٦.
* Maraky alFalah ٣٠٢.


BOOK I: PRAYER ٢٦٥


When the imam emerges, one is not to return the greeting of salam or to reply to
one who sneezes, because one cannot engage in something else other than the
listening to the imam and this applies when the imam appears to conduct the
Friday sermon. Abu Hanifa disliked the response to a person who sneezes and the
returning of salam to others when the imam emerges."


oll Se ٥ geet lal e gall le bd LY,


The imam is not to give salam to the people when he arrives at his point on the
pulpit because if he does so, he will compel the people to that which is unlawful;
namely speech.'


rar Abe hadi tes pall os ey Plo Sy


It is disliked for someone who is obliged to pray the Friday prayer, to leave the
city after hearing its call and not having prayed it.


SIN SS oe jhe lal o| etary


If a person who is not obliged to pray the Friday prayer attends it anyway, such as
a traveller, then it is credited for him as the obligation he had to perform in that
time, namely the dhuhr. Meaning, since one is not obliged to attend the Friday
prayer due to a valid reason, he must still perform the dhur prayer in that time.
However, if he attends the Friday prayer, it is credited for him as the obligation
required in that time.


YS pe J Ly ٠ ng flay Ugad PLY Ugall pam OL co > Ugh hall Joo Jd pte Y os


If a person prays the dhuhr prayer before the Friday prayer without an excuse, it is
unlawful, though his dhuér prayer is considered to have been formed if he does so.
Afterwards, if(he decides to attend the Friday congregation and)he moves
towards it and finds the imam performing it, then his dhuhr is nullified even if he
does not catch the imam in the Friday prayer. The reason is that the mere making
of an effort towards it renders his dhuhr void. However, Imam Muhammad and
Abu Yusuf held that it is not nullified until he joins the prayer with the imam.


pegs pall jae loe pgbill clal OymMy y ginal o Sy


It is disliked for those who are excused from the Friday prayer(such as a traveller
or sick person)as well as prisoners, to perform the dhuhr prayer in congregation in
a city on Friday. It is also disliked for the one excused from the Friday prayer to
offer the dhuhr prayer alone in the city prior to the people performing the Friday
prayer. It is recommended for the excused persons to delay the dhuhr prayer until
after the Friday prayer has concluded and to offer the dhuhr prayer alone.* The
basis for this is the following: i)city locations on Friday are designated for the
Friday assembly prayer. According to the Hanafi school, the Friday prayer is to be
observed in a comprehensive city and not in small villages outside the city. This


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٢.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٣
٣ Nur al-Idah ١٦٦.


٢٦٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





being the case, it is not disliked for residents of small villages outside the city to
call adhan for the dhuhr and perform it in a group, because for them - it is the
obligation of that time, ii)if those regarded as excused from the Friday prayer
offer the dhuhr prayer as a group, it will interfere with the Friday assembly prayer
and cause confusion amongst others who may believe it to be the Friday prayer."


dar cil sgt ogre sl tee GUS vl ٠


If a person joins the Friday assembly prayer when the imam is in the final
tashahhud, or making the prostrations of forgetfulness, then he is to complete the
remainder of his prayer as the Friday assembly prayer according to Imams Abu
Hanifa and Abu Yusuf. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Make up what you have missed]? Imam Muhammad, Malik and Shafi'i held,
that if a person fails to join the congregation in the second rak'ah of the Friday
Prayer before the imam raises his head from bowing, then the person must
continue the prayer as the dhuhr prayer, which is four rak'ahs, not two. However,
the fatwa is with Abu Hanifa. And Allah knows best.





; Maraky <al-Falah ٣٠٣.
Ahmad ٢/٢٣٨.


BOOK Ii: PRAYER ٢٦"


crap es ob
The Eid Prayer !
bers ba p٢٩ tll ee Se
Its Ruling And Conditions That Render It Wajib
Bel WN pe lp gay ceed « ad ٥ pee Upatl ty death ade OS oye fo ee Daly tall de


The prayer of both Eids is wajib upon any person who is obliged to perform the
Friday assembly prayer. This ruling has been established on the basis of the
Prophet's diligence in performing the Eid prayers and because it has been
established that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed it
from the time it became law until he died without neglecting its performance. The
khulafa ar-Rashidin((God be pleased with them))also observed this as well as all
the jurists. And this is the basis for its necessitation." The conditions for the Eid
prayer are the same as the Friday prayer with the exception of the sermon, for the
Eid prayer is valid without the sermon, though it is a minor offence to omit it
because one has neglected a sunna. Note: the reason the Eid prayer is valid
without the sermon is because it is delayed until after the prayer, which therefore
excludes it as a condition, rendering it a sunna. Additionally, it is not a stipulation
for the Eid prayer to consist of a group of three excluding the imam as is the case
in the Friday prayer. Verily, it is valid if there is one person with the imam.*


Cpl ee be tad C٥ ILS
Likewise, it is an offence to advance the sermon of Eid before the prayer, for this
is contrary to the sunna of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)).
peal LE ٦ ٢ bd OL L
Recommendations On Eid Al-Fitr
ye ae BW bil § oy
There are thirteen recommendations on the day of Eid al-Fitr


Lis٩ FJ SWS, Sol, isbal


" A narration in Abu Dawud states that Anas related: "When the Prophet entered Madina, they
had two days in which they would play. The Prophet inquired, 'What are these two days?' 'Chey
said, 'We would play during these two days in the days of ignorance.' The Prophet said,
'Indeed, Allah has replaced for you these days with something better. They are the Day of Adha
and the Day of Fitr.""[Abu Dawud ١١٣٤].

? Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٥.

٣ Nur al-Idah ١٦٦.


٢٦٨ BOOK ١١: PRAYER


It is recommended to eat an odd number of dates before going to the mosque.
Anas((God be pleased with him))reported that the Prophet(God bless him and
give him peace)would not depart for the Eid al-Fitr until he ate a date and he
would eat them in odd(numbers)." However, there is no sin if one does not eat
before the prayer, although if one does not eat in that day, there is blame on his
part.'

als el by ek Seay Jc


It is recommended to perform the purification bath(ghusé), brush the teeth(siwak),
to use perfume and to wear the best clothes one has. Ibn Abbas reported that the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))used to take a bath on the day of
Eid al-Fitr and on the day of Eid al-Adha.' Also, it is recommended to brush the
teeth in all prayers and is encouraged on special occasions. The Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))on the day of Eid would perfume himself.'


age ey)«ball Go S٢٥
It is recommended for a person who is required to pay the sadaqah al-Fitr, to give


it before the prayer, for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))ordered a person to perform this before the people departed for prayer.'


GEN, ٧ Al ٤h,
It is recommended for one to exhibit and display happiness and joy in gratitude
of the blessings Allah has bestowed upon us, and so this joy may affect others.
ailb > GLa! ٥ ٢٥,


It is recommended to give extra sadaqah, depending on one's capacity. Note: if
one does not possess extra funds, then he is to give only what is required.


loi de yay pSctly


It is recommended to be awake early at the earliest period in order for one to
worship in a state of vivacity.


ball J]de stl poy EY,
It is recommended to arrive early at the place of prayer in order for one to acquire
the maximum rewards and benefits, such as being in the first line.
Ba ٢٢h ٩.٣.٣ reall St sgl ١٣]aadadtyy We ١S Lele baal GI ams od am dee S ena Dey


BYuall paxil las oh aly)" Bukhari ٩٥٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٥.
*Tbn Majah ١٣١٥.

* Al-Mustadrak ٣/٢٥٦.
* Bukhari and Muslim.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٦٩


It is recommended to perform the dawn prayer in the local mosque in order to
fulfil its right, and then to proceed towards the area of the Eid prayer walking and
uttering the éakbir silently. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))used
to go for Eid prayer walking on foot." And Ali((God be pleased with him))is
reported to have said[It is a sunna to go on foot to the Eid prayer].? The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The best remembrance is the one
performed silently].' And upon reaching the destination of prayer, one is to stop
uttering the takbir according to one narration. Though according to another
narration, one is to cease the 'akbir when the Eid prayer begins.


FP Sb eras


One is to return from the mosque via a different road. This is the recommended
practice. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))went out by one road
on the day of Eid and returned by another.' One reason for this is that both roads
will bear witness on the Day of Judgement.


cody hall Gall Le L٥ fice Sy


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer at the prayer-site of Eid prior to the Eid
prayer, a position that is agreed upon; and it is disliked at home before the Eid
prayer according to the majority of Hanafi scholars. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased
with him))is reported to have said that Allah's Messenger went out and led the
people in the Eid prayer observing no prayer before it or after it.°


dott! bt! Jes aii ual Gite,


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer at the prayer-site after the Eid prayer, this
applies only to the prayer-site of Eid, and this is the preferred view according to
the majority of the scholars, due to the saying of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri((God be
pleased with him))who reported that Allah"s Messenger((God bless him and give
him peace))did not offer prayer before the Eid prayer. As he returned to his
house, he would perform two rak'ahs." It is therefore not disliked to perform
voluntary prayer at home after the Eid prayer in accordance with the hadith.'


" Ibn Majah ١٢٩٧

? Tbn Majah ١٢٩٦.

٣ Ahmad ١/١٧٢

* Abu Dawud ١١٥٢

٥ Bukhari, Muslim and Ibn Majah ١٢٩١
° Tbn Majah ١٢٩٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٧.


٢٧٠ BOOK I: PRAYER


JusSl ٣ ٣٥٥
The Time Of The Eid Prayer
Vil y٥ Stones of aes ٣d tl PLB! oy le bee cy


The valid time to perform the Eid prayer is when the sun has risen above the
horizon the height of a spears length or two, and ends at(just prior to)noon.


Jol Le Las
How To Perform The Eid Prayer
tal Be gy ls ees LAS


One is to intend the prayer of Eid within himself, and is also required to intend
being linked with his imam as mentioned in the Conditions Of Prayer. The imam is
to utter his intention of leading the prayer."


oS se pd de pc WS oS


Then the opening Allahu akbar is given, after which the imam and follower recite
the opening glorification[thana'.


Lee JS Ste aby UW tly HONS AS ٠S


The additional takbirs are then performed by the imam and followers, and they
are three takbirs for which the hands are raised for each one of them, and this is
the way of Ibn Mas'ud. Note: They are called the additional ¢akbirs as they are
additional to the opening ¢akbir and it is sunna to remain silent between each
takbir the time equivalent to three takbirs.


C٥٢٨ oh SEM hes eed came ٩٥٥ PI ٩ ٦ By yee ٠d RELY ae FN pe geen oF DH GS
After this, the imam is to seek refuge with Allah from Satan the cursed for
recitation and then silently say, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Gracious."
He then recites the Fatiha along with another surah preferably being "Sabi Hisma


Rabbikal Alah" reciting the whole surah. Following this, he is to proceed into the
bowing posture with the people.


BUN ٨)yer ٠ SS OI iy By pb od EWE pb DIU Lead StU pb ١٣
When the imam rises for the second rak'ah, he is to begin with the basmala,' then
the Fatiha, followed by a surah; and it is recommended that the surah be al
Ghashiya according to Abu Hanifa. The Prophet((God bless him and give him


peace))would read in the two Eids and Friday prayer, Sabi Hisma Rabbikal A 'tah
and Hal-ataka hadithul Ghashiya.°


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٧.
* That is, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate".
* Abu Hanifa's Musnad ١٤٢


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٧١


BAS MS Athy SIN SS pd ope Lal Ming © Sy SIS Updos ٠b py UW tly Ml ٥٢S oo
sol all fe Gaul


After this,(the imam and the people are)to pronounce the additional takdirs three
times raising the hands for each one as was done in the first rak'ah; and this
method is superior to advancing the additional takbirs before the recitation, since
it was the practice of Ibn Mas'ud and many of the Companions agreed with his
saying((God be pleased with them all))."


Pa)Bade pISHl loged pele eae BHiall be PLY Cae ٥ ile Uged del pal Jo oA Sl pb Of


If however, the imam advances the additional takdirs in the second rak'ah before
the recitation, it is permitted. And on completion of the prayer, the imam is to
conduct two sermons during which he is to teach the people the laws pertaining to
sadaqah al-Fitr as the Prophet did((God bless him and give him peace))because
the sermon was sanctioned in order to teach people the laws pertaining to


sadaqah al-Fitr.'
Lael y ball De I ٥ Ko


The Ruling Of Missing The Prayer Of Eid Al-Fitr And Delaying It
Lge Y eLyl as i iall sli sey


One cannot make up the prayer of Eid al-Fitr if it is missed in congregation with
the imam, because the conditions of the prayer are incomplete without him.


hd al MI jin > ٥٥


If there is a reason that the Eid prayer cannot be performed on the proper day,
then it may be delayed and performed on the following day only. For example, if
the moon is veiled or is witnessed after the sun had passed its peak, then it is
permitted the following day only. Another reason could be that the Eid prayer
was performed when it was cloudy after which it became known that the dhuhr
time had entered which meant the Eid prayer was performed in a non-permissible
time.
all as QoL ewe else|


The Rules Of Eid Al-Adha And Its Variation To Eid Al-Fitr
ins! cass |e Segall S pSg Dall ٦ ISI Pe eM GSS jas el Gl,
Ah! ٣ ASI SS(abe)s


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٩.


٢٧٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


The rules of Eid al-Adha are the same as Eid al-Fitr, with the exception that for Eid
al-Adha one is to delay eating until after the prayer, for the reason that it is the
recommended practice based on the report that The Prophet would not eat on the
day of Eid al-Adha until he returned upon which he ate from his sacrifice."
However, if one does eat before the prayer, it is not disliked. Other differences
are: that on the day of Eid alAdha one is to utter the ¢akbir aloud in the street
when leaving to the prayer-site and in the sermon of Eid al-Adha the imam is to
teach the people about the sacrifice, namely the slaughtering and who is required
to sacrifice and the time of sacrifice and the judgment of eating etc, and he also
informs them about the takbir of tashrig during the sermon for the reason that the
sermon was sanctioned for this instruction.


In addition, the ١١", ١٢ and ١٣° of Dhul-Hijjah are known as the days of tashriq
in which the meat of the sacrifice was dried in the sun, in order to preserve it. And
the days of nahr(Sacrifice)are the ١٠", ١١ and ١٢". However, the ١٠" is
specifically known as the day of nahr and the ١٣" is specifically known as the day
of tashrig. The ١١" and ١٢" are known as both the days of nahr and tashriq.
Moreover, the takbir of tashrig is the takbir that is said after the prayers beginning
from the fajr on the ٩" up to the end of the days of tashriq.


eLl ew JI be > ٥٣٥


The prayer of Eid al-Adha may also be delayed for three days with a valid excuse,
on the basis that these three days are the days of sacrifice. The prayer is valid
between the rising of the sun(a spears length or two)until just before mid-day for
three days. The prayer cannot be performed after this time.
trodes

If one tries to emulate those who are standing on Arafah, then it is not regarded
as anything. Indeed, such an act is unlawfully disliked[makruh tahrim]because it is
an innovation in religion and is offensive. Verily, the standing is an obligation in a
specified place, just as tawaf is a pious act in a specified place. It is therefore
unlawful to make fawaf around any mosque or any house excluding the ka'bah
imitating those at hajj. Our scholars held that whoever makes tawaf of a mosque
excluding the ka'bah, then disbelief[Kufr]is feared for that person. The same
applies to one who stands in a place resembling those who stand at Arafat.'


" Al Baihaqi ٣/٢٨٣ and Ahmad ٥/٣٥٢.
? Nur al-Idah ١٦٩.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٧٣


oF ope fey Shag Ge AS pS


The Ruli: The Takbirs Of Tashri
And Upon Whom It Is Wajib


Se does telam gal ٣,٨ JS Pip dl par Ie aban ye HAN Ses


It is wajib to commence the takbir of tashriq after the dawn on the day of Arafah(٩* Dhul Hijjah)and is to be ended after the 'asr prayer on the day of Eid al-Adha(١٠° Dhul Hijjah). It is to be pronounced once, straight after every obligatory prayer
which is performed in a recommended group prayer.' And the takbir is wajtb
upon the imam who resides in the city and his followers even if they are travellers,
slaves or females according to Abu Hanifa. However, the women are not to
pronounce the takbir aloud as this may lead to fitna(temptation).


Based on this view, it is not required of the one who prays alone, a traveller or
those who reside in villages outside the city. Equally, it is not required after
voluntary prayer, witr or janaza. With regard to the takbir being wajib upon a
group, the basis is the saying of Ibn Mas'ud(God be pleased with him)who said,
"The takbir in the days of tashriq is not upon one or two persons. The takbirs are
upon those who have prayed in a group." Also, the reason the utterance of the
takbirs has been judged as wajib is because Allah said[Remember Allah during
the appointed days].' Furthermore, Shafi'i maintains that the takbir is an
emphasised sunna |[sunna mu'akkada]and that it is not a requirement that the
takbir be joined to the finishing salam of prayer.'


O٥٢ ce pall nae Moly ٥ gl bln glo pee Wy coe ce be od Sie: VU,
Spal ale y Jor ٤١٩٦ ٦


Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said that the takbir is wajib straight after every
obligatory prayer upon anyone who prays the obligatory prayer, even if one prays
it alone, is a traveller, or resides in a small village. They maintained that this is
wajib until(after)the 'asr prayer of the fifth day starting from the day of Arafah.
And this is the adopted practice and the fatwa issued is in accordance with this.


" Note: this therefore excludes the female group prayer. That is, if a group of woman perform
the obligatory prayer amongst themselves(electing one of the females to lead them), then this
does not necessitate the takbir. However, if women performed the prayer being led by a male
imam, then they are to utter the takbir silently and not audibly. As for the imam and those with
him, they are required to utter it loudly. Moreover, it is necessary to join the takbir to the
finishing salam of prayer.

? Tabarani ١٢/٢٦٨.

> Quran ٢:٢٠٣.


* Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٥٢.


٢٧٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


This means that it begins after the faj٧ prayer on the day of Arafah(٩")and ends
after the 'asr on the final day of tashriq(١٣")according to Muhammad and Abu
Yusuf. Note: This is precautionary, because to perform something that is not
required is better than to leave the command of remembering Allah during the
days which are known(ma'lumat)and those which are appointed(ma 'dudat). Allah
said in surah Hajj, verse ٢٢[Remember Allah during the known days]and in
surah al-Baqarah, verse ٢٠٣[Remember Allah during the appointed days]. It is
maintained that the appointed days are the days of tashriq and that the known
days are the first ten days of the month of dhil hijjah. There is another view that
holds that the known days are the days of nahr and the appointed days are the
days of tashrig."


The issue is a matter of disagreement among the Companions. The two jurists
relied on the statements of Ali(God be pleased with Him)adopting the maximum
as that is the precaution taken in matters of worship. Abu Hanifa relied on the
statement of Ibn Mas'ud adopting the minimum as pronouncing the takbir aloud
is an innovation.


cpdle Hie pL LY
There is no harm in reciting the takbir after the prayer of both Eids.
Lal airy aS]cil _pSU ably ct V]SY ST ait nT ail: Se OF Sly


The takbir is; Allah is the Greatest. Allah is the Greatest. There is none worthy of
worship except Allah. Allah is the Greatest. Allah is the Greatest. All Praise be to
Allah.


<


°
re?},
"e





" Maraky al-Falah ٣١٢.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٧٥


CPW y GB pdly Gp SHI OL


The Prayer Of The Solar And Lunar Eclipse And The Fear Prayer


The term kusuf refers to a solar eclipse whilst the term khusuf refers to a lunar eclipse. Also, the
meaning of the term Sear' in the fear prayer refers to that which brings about dread in a
person, such as an earthquake, strong wind or darkness in the daytime.


fee Shae Vy ge Vy LUV ١ST DUALS jyols gl dl ploy ٥ SU fal dys Ola ٢
inal Ball: solu


It is sunna to pray two rak'ahs when the sw is eclipsed," in the same manner that
one performs voluntary prayer. The imam of the Friday prayer or the sultan's
deputy is to lead the prayer. Jf not, no group prayer is to be observed.' The prayer is
offered without adhan or iqama and without audible recitation of Quran, and no
sermon is delivered, but rather one calls "The prayer is gathering." Qabisah al-
Hilaali reported that there was an eclipse of the sun in the time of the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace). He came out bewildered pulling his garment,
and I was in his company at Madina. He prayed two rak'ahs and stood for a long
time in them. He then departed and the sun became bright. He then said, "There
are signs by means of which Allah, the Exalted, produces dread in his servants.
When you see anything of this nature, pray as though you are praying a fresh
obligatory prayer."


leo plas =» s
It is sunna to lengthen the prayer, such as to read surah al-Baqarah.
cee ay UU fe BU]obs of all fies Like PLY ye ol A prey(٤٨ ٩٥)be play


It is sunna to lengthen the duration of bowing and prostration in both rak'ahs,
after which the imam is to supplicate to Allah while sitting and facing the qibla,
or if he wishes, he may supplicate standing facing the people, and this is superior.
One should not be upon the pulpit supplicating to Allah. The people are to say,
"Amin" to the supplication and this is to be maintained until the sun brightens or
appears. Abu Dawud reported that he Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))stepped forward for a long time as much as he could do so in the prayer.
But we did not hear his voice. He then performed a bow and prolonged it as much
as he could do in the prayer. But we did not hear his voice. He then prostrated
himself with us and prolonged it which he never did in prayer before. But we did


" That is, for a solar eclipse[Ausu/].

? The reason the prayer is to be conducted by the imam of the Friday prayer is to prevent
dispute which may arise between the people.

* Abu Dawud ١١٨١.


٢٧٦ BOOK I!: PRAYER


not hear his voice. He then did similarly in the second rak'ah. Then he uttered the
salutation, he stood up, praised Allah and Exalted Him, and testified that there is
no god but Allah and testified that he is His servant and Apostle." This tradition
indicates that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))recited the Quran
quietly in the prayer of the eclipse. This is the view of Abu Hanifa and Shafi'.
Although there is another tradition narrated by A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))which shows that he recited Quran audibly. This tradition has been
transmitted by Bukhari. The view that the Quran should be recited loudly is held
by Imam Ahmad and Ibn Khuzayma. Imam An-Nawawi stated that Shaft, Malik,
Abu Hanifa and the majority of the jurists hold that one should recite Quran quietly at the
solar eclipse and loudly at the lunar eclipse."


Wap DIS sol alylo pL at Joly
If the imam is not present amongst the people, they are to offer the prayer
individually just as the prayer of the lunar eclipse(Khusuf)is prayed individually.


Verily, there is no congregation when the moon is eclipsed(i.e. lunar eclipse).(٥٦h pally SY SL)& jis Gly Hh OlS AS)saat Telly c Lobe AGU Aaddall(٥٠ ٣ aallS)»


Other prayers which are offered individually are the prayer of terrifying darkness
in the day, the prayer due to strong wind, whether it is during the day or at night,
and the prayer of peril, which is fear or threat, such as from an earthquake or
lightning, or rain or sickness and the like.


" Hakim Mustadrak, ١/٤٨١(Maraky al-Falah ٣١٣].
Awn, Al-Ma'bad |/ ٤٦٠.


BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٧٧


The Drought Prayer(Seeking Rain)acl pf cy Do a)There isa prayer for the seeking of rain. The prayer is not offered in a group, it is
prayed individually. The prayer is lawful with no dislike, and in saying this, it is
not sunna because Umar Ibn al-Khattab did not offer prayer when he sought rain.
His actions did not go beyond seeking forgiveness.' Additionally, Umar was the
most diligent in adhering to the sunna of the Prophet. The Prophet(God bless
him and grant him peace)requested rain with his Companions and had it been
established that he offered prayer, then it would have become well known. In
addition, there is a sound report that a man came to the Prophet complaining
about drought. The Prophet raised his hands seeking rain and there is no mention
of prayer or turning the cloak inside out. However, the fact that Umar left the
observance of prayer does not negate its permissibility. The basis of its
permissibility is owing to a Shadh narration mentioned on the matter.'


The scholars thereafter differed whether the prayer should be offered individually
or in a group. Abu Hanifa maintained that it is offered individually, not in a
group. Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf held, "The imam is to pray two
rak'ahs reciting Quran audibly such as in the Eid prayer, though without the
additional takbirs." The proof used to support this view is the narration of Ibn
Abbas(God be pleased with him)who said[The Prophet prayed for rain consisting of
two rak'ahs such as the prayer of Eid in which he recited aloud, and the prayer is without
adhan or igama].' They also held that the imam is to deliver a sermon after the
prayer like the Eid prayer. Concerning whether it be one or two sermons; Imam
Muhammad maintained that it be two sermons where the imam briefly sits
between them. Abu Yusuf held that it is to be one sermon after which the imam is
to face the qibla and turn his cloak inside out and supplicate the request of rain.
Therefore, the position of the Hanafi School is that it is permitted if it is offered
in a group.' However, it is up to the imam of the people; if he wishes he may
perform a prayer or not.


There is the seeking of forgiveness when seeking rain. Allah said[Ask forgiveness
from your Lord, for He is Oft Forgiving; He will send rain to you in abundance].*


" AlBaihagi ٣/٣٥١[Maraky al-Falah ٣١٥].
? Maraky al-Falah ٣١٥.

٣ AtTirmidhi ٥٥٨, Abu Dawud ١١٦٥.

* Maraky al-Falah. ٣١٥.

> Surah Nuh ١٠-١١.


٢٧٨ BOOK Il: PRAYER


Cal yee Udics tnd yo(Gd yo po)UE AL OS GIL LIEW oy Diy
tH ٩٥ SU SUS ab patle


It is recommended to exit the city for those seeking rain and depart into the
desert or into an outer region of the country for three consecutive days. They are
to exit walking in washed worn out clothes which are patched(or not), and they
are to be submissive and humble, fearing Allah during which the heads are


lowered.
JUDY y LSE pally ly ch]ony gre Lo ey JS Gall odin


Sadagah(charity)is to be forwarded for all the three days before leaving and all
should renew their repentance to Allah. It is recommended that the animals be
taken with the travellers for three days as well as the elderly and the young in
order to attract the Mercy of Allah upon them. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[Had it not been for the pious youth, the grazing animals,
the elderly whom pray, and the young who breastfeed,(Allah)would have poured
punishment in a vast amount]."
Dypreck giV arly ol Dl ae gab ual oy I dy

The people who reside in Makkah are not to exit to the desert, but rather, are to
gather in the Masjid al-Haram. And the people who reside in Bait al Magqdis(Jerusalem)are to gather at Masjid al-Aqsah, the reason being is that these places
are honoured and there is an increased mercy that descends upon them of which
there is no doubt.


prey ale dit foo gill Syte La Lal lS aes


And this is also required for the residents of the Madina of the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))- that is, they are to gather in the masjid of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)). For even if the Prophet is not
present, the mercy of Allah continues to descend upon his enlightened Madina.
Allah says[You have not been sent, except as a mercy unto mankind].


Leger all aged Leys(lo eb Len We Ctl)nb Mele Ge le yp Le


During the supplication, the imam is to stand facing the qibla raising his hands,
while the people are sitting facing the qibla saying 'Amin' to the imam's
supplications. The supplication for rain is; Allah! Give us rain that will help us, that is
good and productive, in abundance that will come now and not later which covers{the ground
fertilising the crops}always. Other supplications resembling this may be also uttered,
silently or aloud.


" Tabarani ٢٢/٣٠٩ and al-Baihaqi ٣/٣٤٣.
* Al-Anbiya ١٠٧; Maraky al-Falah ٣١٦.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٧٩


ola bb ad ly
There is no switching around the cloak(reverse fold)during the request for rain
according to Abu Hanifa Switching the cloak means placing the right side of it on
the left side and vice verse or turning it upside down. This is do٩٨ne to indicate a
change of state. These actions are not to be performed in the view of Abu Hanifa,
though; Imam Muhammad stated that the cloak is to be switched. Al-Hidayah
however said that he is to turn his cloak inside out, due what is reported, that the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))faced the qibla and tumed his cloak(inside out)."
eats

Non-Muslims are not to be present during the request for rain on the basis of
Umar preventing their presence; and because if rain is given, it will corrupt the
vulnerable Muslims. Also, the objective of the journey and departure is to attract
the mercy of God; whereas non-Muslims acquire His displeasure. This is the case
even if it is permissible to say that the supplication of the disbeliever is answered
as the text al-Khaniyya states. The reality is — the reason they are prevented from
attending is not because the supplication of the disbeliever is not accepted as
some have understood. However, the reason is because it is feared that the weak
Muslims will become misguided if they are given rain because of the disbelievers'
supplication. Therefore, it is paramount that the disbelievers not exit the city by
themselves for the request of rain, in order to prevent them corrupting the feeble
minded; and neither are they to exit with the Muslims because it is disliked to
unite their group with the Muslim one.'


J bles Ob


The Fear Prayer
Kee g Lge So>


Its Ruling and Reason
Bm NEF Guy ce gl pe pparn isle


The prayer of fear is permitted during the presence of an enemy or predatory
beast even if the fear is not immense.' The prayer of fear is permitted when one
fears he will drown in a flood or torrent or fears he will be burnt.


" Recorded by all six compilations.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣١٨.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣١٩.


٢٨٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


How to Perform the Prayer


pS SANG bey geal ob Baal y : catl wplamd toly lol alo Sal! So pill p jG IL
BLde saat Mode gat yc cr all Pach Wl ope eS yy ASL!


If the people are tense or apprehensive to pray behind one imam for fear an
enemy could attack them at any time, thereby no-one is on watch due to their
engagement in prayer, then they are to be divided into two equal groups, the first
group stands opposite to the enemy while the other group pray one rak'ah from a
two rak'ah prayer(such as for the Friday prayer)or pray two rak'ahs from a four
rak'ah prayer or from the maghrib, because it is not possible to split the maghrib
into two equal halves, thus he allocates two rak'ahs to the first group. On
completion of the rak'ah(or two from four), this group returns to face the enemy
walking. /f they ride or walk to a direction other than the direction of the lines which are
opposite to the enemy, the prayer is void.'
ISN SN Ab ot y pling ٦ gh be oye fred c AUG cole y

Thereafter, the second group arrives and prays what is left of the prayer. The


imam then gives the final salams alone - while this(second)group returns to the
enemy walking.

V yada yl pakeny el ٥ He Ipfly Sy! ele @
After this, the first group returns and completes the prayer they began without
reciting Quran, because they were with the imam from the commencement and
the judgement is that the imam's recitation is regarded as recitation for the


follower, regardless if they leave and return. Upon completion, they give the final
salams and return to the enemy.


Bel py gay Le Nylon g Lyelt Ol ig FV ole os


The second group may then return if they wish or they may pray in their current
places, and they are to make up what remains from the prayer with recitation of
Quran for the reason that they are latecomers to prayer, due to the fact that they
began after the first group and latecomers must recite Quran for themselves when
making up what they missed. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed the prayer of fear according to this description."


Note: There are sixteen varying narrations about the prayer of fear. The Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)performed it twenty-four times and all are
permitted, but the greatest and closest to what the Quran states is that mentioned
above. In addition, one of the reasons that the prayer is split into two groups is
that while one prays, the other protects the rest of the people, so that the enemy
does not realise that half the people have left for prayer.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣١٩.
* Abu Dawud ١٢٣٤(Maraky al-Falah ٣١٩].


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٨١





rar)٣! Ja٥! a!
Excessive Fear
Ny ٢٥٣ Sgr ol Sl lek cold GUS Mylo G bt ett oly


If one's fear intensifies from an enemy for life and limb, one is permitted to pray
alone while riding his beast by way of indication(nodding).


Se ptm We dy
The prayer of fear(in this manner as well as dividing the group)is not permitted
unless it be in the presence of an enemy or foe.
Bl be all § CH Ye ey

It is recommended to carry a weapon during the prayer of fear. Imam Malik and
Shafi'i held it as necessary to carry a weapon due to the saying of Allah((When
you(O Messenger)are with them, and stand to lead them in prayer, let one party
of them stand up(in prayer)without you, taking their arms with them; when they
finish their prostrations, let them take their positions in the rear. And let the other
party come up which has not yet prayed, and let them pray with you taking all
precautions, and bearing arms: the unbelievers wish, if you were negligent of your
arms, to assault you in a single rush))."


cp DLe Joo oleh, dal |S Be PadVU c tots pl dle all Gye jks fools


If there is no apprehension or unease for all the people to pray behind one imam,
then the best method is that each group prays the entire prayer behind its own
imam; meaning the first group prays the entire prayer with its own imam,
thereafter the second group prays the entire prayer with its own imam, it is
therefore prayed in a manner that one prays when it is safe.


٢٨٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


SRNoratn eM


The Chapter
of 'Funerals


BS ie oath al ald


ag omen


es An PtMesae «. hha


٢٨٤ BOOK II: FUNERALS

Book III: The Funeral Prayer[Janaza]CONTENTS:
The Funeral Rules


The Funeral Prayer
Its Ruling And Pillars
Conditions Of The Funeral Prayer
Sunan Of The Funeral Prayer


The One Most Entitled To Conduct The Funeral Prayer
The Ruling Of Multiple Funeral Prayers At The Same Time


Carrying The Deceased And The Burial
Visiting The Graves
The Rules Of Martyrdom


The Reality Of A Martyr According To Islamic Law
What is Done With A Martyr(Shahid)٢٩٤
٢٩٥
٢٩٦
٢٩٩
٣٠٤
٣١١


٣١٣
٣l٤
٣١٤


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٨٥


Pl isl ol
The Funeral Rules
Ads eal, ad ٥٩ olde jhe ys dees fe parla ٥ oy


It is sunna to turn the dying person on his right side. And it is permitted to keep
him on his back, as they are easier to treat, though his head is to be slightly
inclined so that his face is directed towards the qibla and not the sky.


be Vas CU ab opens Balt Sd gly


It is sunna to instruct the dying person to say, "There is no god but Allah" letting him
hear it(so he can repeat it)but without irritating insistence and without ordering
him to say it. It should not be said to the dying 'Say.', rather it is recommended
to encourage the dying to repent to Allah, in saying 'I seek forgiveness from
Allah, the One and only' etc.! However, the disbeliever is to be ordered to utter
the testimonies of faith. Anas((God be pleased with him))said: A young Jew
became ill. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))went to visit him
upon which he sat down by his head and said to him "Accept Islam." The boy
looked at his father who was near his head, and he said, 'Obey Abu al-Qasim.' So
he accepted Islam, and the Prophet stood up saying, "Praise be to Allah who has
saved him through me from hell."' This shows that it is meritorious to visit a non-
Muslim during his illness. In such cases, Islam behaves on humanitarian

ounds.' Therefore, the dying is to be reminded about the shahada given that the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Whoever's last words were
'There is no god but Allah', he will enter Paradise].' The Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))also said[Prompt your dying with the saying 'There is no
god but Allah'].> With respect to the first point about instructing the deceased
without insistence, this is due to the nature of the situation, for at that time it is
difficult and it is feared that the dying may become annoyed.


tar il ٥ onal y


Instructing the deceased(talqin)after his body has been placed in the grave is
legal(through Islamic law). Instructing the deceased means to instruct the
deceased with the declarations of faith, "There is no god but Allah and
Muhammad is the Messenger of Allah, the Holy Book, and other matters of
creed.[/bn Abidin states in his Hashia:| \t is reported that the Prophet ordered the
instruction[talgin]of the deceased after the burial. Therefore, one is to say, "O


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٢.
٢ Bukhari ١٣٥٦.

٣ Abu Dawud ١/٨٨٢.

+ Abu Dawud ٣١١٠.

٥ Abi Shaybah ٢/٤٤٧.


٢٨٦ BOOK Hl: FUNERALS


such and such, remember your religion that you were upon in the world; namely
~ la ilaha illa Allah Muhammad rasul Allah, and that paradise is true, hell-fire is true
and the resurrection is true; and that the hour is coming of which there is no
doubt; and that Allah will resurrect those in their graves; and that you are pleased
with Allah as the Lord and Islam as the religion and Muhammad as the
Messenger, and the Quran as the guide; the ka'bah as the qibla and the believers
as brothers:.!


Indeed, the basis for this instruction is the saying of the Prophet, "Instruct your
dead, 'I testify there is no god but Allah"? This has been related by the group,
except Bukhari and this action is attributed to AAl asSunna walJama'a.
Furthermore, the word 'mawtaakum' translated as dead or deceased in the above
hadith leaves no doubt that the expression and meaning is literal and real. And it
is not permissible to leave the literal position unless there is proof to the contrary.
It is therefore necessary that it be specified as literal with the saying 'mawtaakum'?


Additionally, the authentic hadith of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him
peace)ordered that the bodies of the idolaters slain on the day of Badr be thrown
into a well whose interior was uncased with stones, then he approached the well
and began calling the unbelievers by their names and fathers' names, saying: "O
So and soson of so and so, and So and So- son of so and so, it would have been
easier had you obeyed Allah and His Messenger. We have found what our Lord
promised to be true; have you found what your Lord promised to true?" To which
Umar said, "O Messenger of Allah, why speak to lifeless bodies?" And he replied,
"By Him in whose hands is the soul of Muhammad, you do not hear my words
better than they do." This authentic hadith clearly shows that a dead person hears
the words of a living person.


cal Y bss


Though it has been said that the deceased is not to be instructed(reminded)after
being placed in his grave, although this saying is attributed to the Mu'tazilah.* Al-
Qadi Amir Muhammad al-Karmani was asked about the instruction or reminding
the deceased upon which he said, "Why should a person not observe this
instruction of the deceased, seeing that it contains benefit from what is
transmitted from the Companions, God be pleased with them all."


at gts Van ee Y bo


It has also been said that one is not to be ordered to instruct the deceased and
neither is he to be prevented from doing so. This means that the person who leads
the funeral procession, usually the imam or anyone else, is not to be ordered or
prevented from instructing the deceased.


" Radd al- Muhtar vol. ٣/٨٠.
"Muslim ٩١٦,

"Maraky al Falah $٢٢.
'Mataky al Palah ٣٢٢.


BOOK Il: FUNERALS ٢٨٧


Cte okt Ogg ale Sealey parallel SY wy


It is recommended for the relatives of the dying person and his neighbours to visit
him and recite surah Ya—Sin in his presence, as was ordered by the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))who said[Recite over your dying Ya-Sin]." They
are also to remind him and fulfil his rights and offer water to drink as the thirst at
the time of death is great." Furthermore, they should produce in his mind a sense
of hope mentioning God's unlimited mercy.


Some of the later scholars maintained that it is good to recite surah ar-Rad in the
presence of the dying, due to the saying of Jabir((God be pleased with him))[For
verily, it makes easy the exiting of the soul].°


ode op olntly ail elo)gl abel


Scholars differed whether the female with her menstrual periods or postnatal
bleeding should withdraw from the presence of the dying, implying that this may
prevent the presence of angels descending due to the attendance of a female in
such a state, as is related in the hadith. The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[The angels do not enter the house where there is a picture, or a dog
or a person in the state of janaba(sexual impurity)].' Indeed, one in the state of
janaba is similar to one who suffers menstrual periods. Note: The dog kept for
watching agricultural fields or cattle or the house is exempt from this prohibition.
And the word picture refers to an image of sentient objects.


pt any abe ail fre atl Spry Le the oy ail ny: ane J pry elise pant sold at ol ١٣)٥
ase EN al ee le feels Hla edad ote cde Jewry opt ole po


Upon death, it is recommended to close the jaw of the deceased(with a wide
bandage tied around the head and under the jaw so the mouth is not left open),
and the eyes are to be gently closed, since it is an order reported in the sunna.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[When you visit your
deceased persons, you should close their eyes, for verily the eyesight follows the
soul and you should say good words for the angels say, Amin' to what the people
of the house utter(for or against him)}." The one closing the eyes of the deceased
is to say, "In the name of Allah and on the religion of the Beloved Prophet. O Allah, lighten
the matter on him and smooth the path for what is after it, and honour him in Your meeting
and make that which he has gone to better than that which he came out from."





" An-Nasai ٦/٢٦٥.

? Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٣.

٣ Imam Suyuti Mandhur ٤/٥٩٩.
* Abu Dawud ٢٢٧

> Tbn Majah ١٤٥٥.


٢٨٨ BOOK Il; FUNERALS


٠ he Je a٩ ٥٩٨ Vy ecrw oly aid iy ٦ ets WY Bom hy fe as gy


It is recommended to place something heavy on his stomach, such as a metal to
prevent bloating(as was related by Imam Shafi'i), thereafter the hands of the
deceased are placed on his sides. It is not permitted to place the hands on the
chest of the deceased for it is a practice of the People of the Book. Also, the limbs
and joints should be made flexible by bending the forearm to the upper arm, the
calf to thigh and the thigh to the stomach and then straightening them. Likewise,
the fingers are flexed in order to smooth the process of the washing and
shrouding.'


bw ogo oe oF at oel ٥ oN


It is disliked to recite Quran at this time in the presence of the deceased until he
is washed(for verily as the washing is taking place, the impurities and filth are
being washed away).


Gym pl ertep -LY,


There is no harm with announcing the death to the people. Verily it is
recommended in order to increase the amount of people who perform the funeral
prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If any Muslim
who dies and forty men who associate nothing with Allah stand over his body(i.e.
they offer prayer on him), Allah will accept them as intercessors for him].' Note, if
the number increases the intercession would be more effective as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If a company of Muslims numbering
one hundred pray over a dead person, all of them interceding for him, their
intercession for him will be accepted].


* re owes


It is recommended to make haste in preparing the deceased for burial. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[And make haste, for it is not
advisable for the corpse of a Muslim to remain withheld among his family]."


V٩ pF pe SEES eos


The deceased is to be placed on a bench(or washing platform)which is lightly
fumigated with incense or a scented compound by circling the washing bench in
odd numbers, such as three, five, or seven times. Note: During the wash, it is
permissible to place the body in one of two positions. One may place the feet of
the deceased facing towards qibla, or one may place the right side of the deceased
towards the qibla.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٥.
* Muslim ٩٤٨.

* Muslim ٩٤٧.

* Abu Dawud ٣١٥٣.


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٨٩


moll fe Gal AS oy
Accordingly, the body is placed in the position that is agreed upon, and this is the


most correct view(note: whichever position is convenient is permissible).
SF ps


Thereafter, the private area is covered, which is between the umbilicus to the


knees. However, al-Hidaya states that it is sufficient to cover the major private


area.!


Seely Laas aaa fis Vee ٠S VY ٦ ٩٥٩٩ Ol ye o>


The clothes of the deceased are then removed, and he is given wudu without
rinsing the mouth or nostrils. Though a young child who is not mentally
competent for prayer is not given wudu.


Lee OS tY


If however the deceased is in a state of sexual impurity(such as after sexual
intercourse or is a menstruating woman or a woman with postnatal bleeding)they
are to have their nostrils and mouth gently rinsed.


AIT AW yay ch DE Vy ٣٢> ot pte far le ale ney


Upon completion of wudu, water which has been boiled with sidr(lote tree leaves)or Aurud(a type of leaf)is poured on the deceased. And if there is no lote tree
leaves to boil with the water, then plain(unmixed)water is to be used. It was
reported that Allah's Messenger((God bless him and give him peace))came to us
when his daughter died and said[Wash her three or five times or more, if you see
it necessary with water and sidr(lotetree leaves)]."


bbl otyel, Lin,


The head of the deceased including the beard is then washed with khitmi, which is


a plant that has sweet aromas and is used as a cleansing agent also known as
marshmallow.


WIS ae Le ood aoe Se oe le SUN feces o> fanied opler fo erent


Thereafter the deceased is tilted onto his left side(as it is sunna to allow the right
side to be bathed first)and is then washed until the water reaches the part that
touches the bedside. During this tilt, water is poured from head to toe. The body
is then placed on its right side and similarly bathed, until the water reaches the


entire body.
Jay dy abit ace oo bey Medley cee y A]Ls bel gS


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٦.
? Bukhari ١٢٥٣.


٢٩٠ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


The deceased is then inclined in a sitting posture slightly leaning forward(to
prevent him falling)and the stomach is gently messaged(to clear away any traces
of remaining bodily substances). Whatever exits the body is to be washed away,
and the washing process is not to be repeated. Ali Ibn Abi Talib((God be pleased
with him))is reported to have said that when he bathed the Holy Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))he began to trace out from him, which one traces
from the deceased. But he did not find it. Thereupon he said[May my father be a
ransom for you. You are the most pure. You were clean and pure in life and you
are clean and pure after demise]."


ebyael, fe bytl Jat yo rities


The deceased is then dried with a cloth. Hanut(balm or an aromatic compound)is
then placed upon the beard and head of the deceased as was related from Alii,
Abbas, and Ibn Umar."


orl le pls,


Thereafter, the places that touch the floor in prostration are rubbed with kafur(camphor). That is, it is placed on the forehead, nose, hands, knees and the feet as
Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud narrated.


٦ alas Oy BS call Seated Jnl S ads


Cotton is not to be used during the washing, and this is the most evident view in
this regard. However, some scholars such as Imam Zayla'i have said there is no
problem in placing cotton on the face, though the majority hold that during the
wash one should not place cotton in the anus or front part of the deceased.


aad go ete pe Voto tb pats Ys
The nails, beard and hair of the deceased is not to be cut, trimmed or combed


due to the words of A'ishah((God be pleased with her))"Why do you stretch the
forelock of your deceased?"


Vadee fant Vi A gl lS dey Lew yj fanaa af Il


The wife is permitted to wash her deceased husband for the reason that she
remains his wife for another four months and ten days.* Though the opposite is
not permitted(i.e. for a man to wash his wife, the reason being that ceremonial
relations have ceased). Likewise, a slave who has given birth to a child of her
master cannot perform the washing of her master, though if there is no one
present to wash him, the slave is permitted to wrap a cloth around her hand and
purify her deceased master by tayammum. If a woman is not found to bath a
woman, then her husband is allowed to purify her by tayammum.


" Ibn Majah ١٤٦٧. The isnad is sound.

* Ibn Shaybah ٢/٤٦٠.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨.

* If however, she gives birth after his death or her waiting period | 'idda]of divorce is complete,
she cannot bath him.[Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨].


BOOK III: FUNERALS ٢٩١


BE peas pF py Id dey Ly ٦B Fu A KAS Ls yes Sle SH edd pl ys


If a female dies amongst men, they are to purify her by tayammum, and the
person who conducts this, is to wrap a cloth around his hand. Likewise, if a man
dies amongst women, they are to purify him by tayammum with a cloth wrapped
around the hand of the female who does it. If however, there is a relative present
who is unmarriageable(mahram), then they are permitted to give the deceased
tayammum without a cloth whether the deceased is male or female. The reason this
is the case is because they are unmarriageable. Hence, it is permitted for them to
touch the parts of the deceased that are required for tayammum."


uly J aU Gee IRAN Nis y


The same applies for a hermaphrodite; that is, they are to be purified by
tayammum according to the most evident opinion.


Lee dines pe Le ah ly Je WU ٥٩٤


It is permitted for a man to wash a young girl who has not reached the age of
puberty provided he does not desire her. Likewise, it is permitted for a woman to
wash a young boy provided she does not desire him, because their body parts are
not classified as private parts due to their age.'


coll ps LY,


There is no harm if one kisses the deceased out of love. A'ishah((God be pleased
with her))said: I saw the Apostle of Allah((God bless him and give him peace))as
he kissed Uthman Ibn Madhun while he was dead, and I saw that tears were
flowing(from his eyes). Note: Uthman Ibn Madhun was the foster brother of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)); he was an immigrant and was the
first among the immigrants to die. The Prophet kissed him out of love for him.
Abu Bakr is also said to have kissed the Prophet when he died.


COW I ae shy lal jae Jo dl Jey
It is the responsibility of the man in preparing his deceased wife for the burial
and shrouding according to Imam Abu Yusuf, even if he is in financial difficulty


and this is the correct view which is in harmony with the fatwa issued. Note: the


kafn are the shrouds which the deceased is made to wear prior to being placed
into the grave.


lis ٤٠ oye Je aS SLY opr


Whoever dies and has no money, then the cost of the shrouding is to be paid by
those who were legally required to assist him before he died(such as his family).


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٨.
* Abu Dawud ٣١٥٧.


٢٩٢ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


MW oy(fb ott de OF pode pd oly


If there is no such person present, then the responsibility falls upon bait alse,
which is wealth that the imam of the Muslims has gathered from chaity
donations, taxes on the ground, zakat etc.


Nt Jos(Ab ol jae daw J Op


If however, there are no funds given(for the shrouding of the deceased)from kit
al-Mal either due to insufficient funds or injustice(in that they say that the righ of
wealth is for the benefit of the Muslims, or due to ignorance)then it is upon the
people who are able to donate funds and assist.


ob ade hb Voy grt J JL, Col os),


A person who is financially unable to assist the deceased in the shrouding or
burial is required to seek assistance from others on behalf of the deceased.


ihm Gad lS es Mila y Shik pared | em fe NAS


To enshroud the deceased is obligatory. As to the number of cloths used, thi is
divided into three types; namely, sunna, sufficient and necessity. The suma
shrouding of a man consists of, i)a shirt, which extends from the base of the neck
to the feet, ii)a wrapper{izar], which is the inner shroud, its length being from the
head to the feet, iii)an outer wrapper[٤fafah], its length being longer than one's
body, extending beyond the head and feet with which the entire body can be
wrapped with an allowance made for the tying of the knots at both ends." And the
quality of the shrouds is to be equal to the clothing one would wear when he was
alive, such as on the day of Eid celebration or Friday prayer.' Additionally, one
should not be extravagant in shrouding. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[Do not be extravagant in shrouding, for it will be quickly
decayed].'.


Important note: There are times of necessity or little means when some of the
shrouds are unavailable, for example, Mus'ab Ibn Umair((God be pleased with
him))was martyred on the day of Uhud. He had only a striped cloak, when his
head was covered, his feet appeared and when his feet were covered, his head
appeared. Thereupon, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Cover his head with it, and cover his feet with grass].' In this example, it is clear
that due to the circumstances, this man was shrouded only in a single garment,
which sufficed due to the necessity. This means that in the event of necessity, it is
permissible to enshroud the deceased in what is available. Though if all shrouds
are available, it is sunna to use all shrouds. Thus, the shrouding is divided into
three sections: ١-sunna(if all are available), ٢-sufficient and ٣-necessity.

ee

" Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٩.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٢٩.

* Abu Dawud ٣١٤٨

* Abu Dawud ٣١٤٩.


BOOK III: FUNERALS ٢٩٣


chal -٢ el! fad y « Ly ١٥]SUS
The sufficient shrouding is the inner wrapper[iar]and the outer wrapper[٤fafah]. White cotton is the best and preferred type of shroud. Abu Bakr((God be


pleased with him))said[Wash these two clothes of mine and enshroud me in
them]." This hadith clearly indicates that these two shrouds alone are sufficient.


call SO AN o> SLU y GY! oe JS٩


The length of both the inner wrapper and outer wrapper are to be from the head(hair)of the deceased to the feet with an allowance for the knots at the ends.


ai ol RSS Vy Gee Vy ٠ FV eS rae Lat Vy


The shirt is to have no sleeves, or opening at the bottom and no pockets(for this
is a need for the living not the dead). Additionally, the edges are not to be
hemmed.


well Dull Ss
To include a turban with the shrouds is disliked, and this is the soundest view as
it was not included in the shrouds of the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace)). However, some jurists have allowed it.'
The procedure of the shrouds is to first position the outer wrapper on the bench,
then the inner wrapper on top, after which the deceased is made to wear the shirt
and set down on these shrouds.'


es Silaecaly


The inner wrapper[izar]is first folded from the left side, then from the right side(so that the right part will be over the left part). Thereafter, the outer wrapper[٤fafah]is folded similarly.


o Lisl Wis cl lade y
The shrouds may be knotted if it is feared they will unfold.
ged de S٢٥ oy ge SIA OI Gal Alot sy
In the sunna shroud for a woman, two additional cloths are added(to that of the
shrouds of a man); the first is a veil[khimar]to cover her head and face and the
second is a cloth used to cover her breasts that extends from the chest area to the
umbilicus. Though it has been said that it is to extend from the breasts to the


knees. Thus, the sunna shroud for a female includes five covers: ١/ shirt, ٢/ veil, ٣/
inner wrapper, ٤/ outer wrapper and ٥/ breast tie.


١a(Sle op Je USI(AS)٣y


" Recorded by Ahmad.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٠.


٢٩٤ BOOK II: FUNERALS


The sufficient shrouding for a woman are three; the inner wrapper, outer wrapper
and veil[|khimar].


The procedure of shrouding a woman is as follows; the female is made to wear the


shirt. Her hair is then divided into two folds and placed over the right and left
breast, over the shirt.


BW os ٥ yb LIS
The veil is then placed upon the head and face over the shirt so that it will end up
being under the outer wrapper.
Wi Ale
The breast cloth is then tied over the outer wrapper to prevent them from


unfolding and potential exposure. Hence, we have the shirt, followed by the veil,
inner wrapper, outer wrapper, and breast tie.


Ud coy ol J٥ ١٥)OUST ٤٥
The shrouds(be they for a man or woman)are then scented with aroma from
aloes and the like and this is performed in odd numbers before the deceased is
placed in them. The Prophet((God bless him give him peace))said[If you place
an aroma upon the deceased, then do so in odd numbers].'


de yleiyy pall ٢٥٥


The shroud of necessity(whether for a man or woman)is what is available as
mentioned in the hadith earlier.


٣ Liat sue ٣ Jaed
The Prayer Over The Dead(Funeral prayer)Lets shy cdl fo SAvall .S>
Its Ruling And Pillars
BUS ٢ J ale Lal


The prayer over the dead is a communal obligation, meaning it is collectively
obligatory, though if a few persons perform the prayer, then the rest are relieved
of the obligation. Allah said[And Pray over them].? And the Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))said[Pray over every pious and impious person].°


eLill ASS Ls,


" Ahmad ٣/٣٣١.
* Tawbah ١٠٣
٣ Abu Dawud ٥٩٤.


BOOK ١١١: FUNERALS ٢٩٥


The pillars of the funeral prayer are the sayings of Allahu akbar and the standing(ie. to stand and perform the prayer).


call fe salt by


Conditions Of The Funeral Prayer
daw ght ٥
Its conditions are six;
٤ eb y call po!
|/ ٢/ The deceased is to be Muslim and in a state of purification. Allah said[Nor
do you ever pray for any of them that die, nor stand at his grave, for they rejected
Allah and His Messenger, and died in a state of perverse rebellion]." With respect
to the second point of purification, this means, the deceased must be free from
filth regarding his clothes and body including the area where the deceased is
placed. The reason purity is a condition is because the deceased, during the


prayer, is in front of the people and it is the right of the imam that the dead body
be clean.


yall pled ana
٣-The deceased is to be placed in front of the people.
٤-The body of the deceased or the majority of it should be present. If not, then
half the body with the head is to be present. Prayer is not to be performed if the
deceased is not present. As for the prayer over Najashi, this was something
specific for him according to the agreement of Hanafi scholars as well as the
Malikis. It was considered as a Miracle for the Prophet. As for the Shafi'is and


Hanbalis, they held that the funeral prayer is permitted upon a non present
deceased.'


phe CSI)nb Updo ual ٣,٥٥
٥-The people who are praying over the deceased must not be riding or sitting


unless there is a valid reason; because standing during the funeral prayer is a
pillar and one cannot leave the standing position unless there is a valid reason.


ade ope VI sb Sdl fo Datta fo gh blo Je obs Of G٢ MI Je ellos
٦-The deceased is to be placed on the ground during the prayer. If he is placed on
a beast(such as a horse)or is held up by the hands of the people, then the prayer


is not valid according to the chosen view, unless there is a legitimate reason, such
as the ground is extremely muddy.


" Tawbah ٨٤.
* AL Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٩٠.


١٩٦ BOOK III: FUNERALS


cab fe SLaI! ٧
The Sunan Of The Funeral Prayer
ql yey
Its sunan are four;
coil shots ١,٩٥ CAN pais line pL! ols


١- It is sunna for the imam to stand near the chest of the deceased whether it is a
male or female; the reason being is that the chest is the place of the heart and the
light of Iman.!


Sas Sal ae ebtly

٢- After the first Allahu akbar, one is to recite the opening glorification(thane)and it is[Glory be to You, O Allah and Praise be to You, and Blessed is Your Name, and
Exalted is Your Majesty, and there is none to be served besides You]. Note; It is permissible
to recite the Fatiha with the intention of the opening glorification(thana). It is
reported that Ibn Abbas performed prayer over a deceased and recited the Fatiha
and said, "In order that you know it is from the sunna."" Imam Shafi'i held it as
obligatory. Hanafi jurists say that there is no problem for one who intended it as
recitation in order to remove oneself from the varying views of the scholars. Given
this, it has also been stated that the most correct view is that if one recites it with
the intention of recitation, then it is disliked, though not if one recites it with the
intention of the opening glorification."


Ast ay plang ae il fro I ae Jo TDL
٣- After the second Allahu akbar, it is sunna to recite the blessings on the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))and it is[O Allah! Shower Your Mercy upon
Muhammad and the family of Muhammad, as You showered Your Mercy upon
Ibrahim and the family of Ibrahim. O Allah! Shower Your blessings upon
Muhammad and the family of Muhammad as You showered Your blessings upon
Ibrahim and the family of Ibrahim. Behold You are Praiseworthy, Glorious].


Gals od ged ٣ Stl oles OL yo oct a)uate Vy SUI te ad oleally
ely ce ally aie yam hy al abl Ul ley ale dbl fro gil ite sles ce ge hem Le axey))Iyho Daly AN ope te Ns gilt gate(ES LURE spe adi yo ally htt y UL Lisl alte ang y J ٥(CW bie y pill lic oye otely cbt abtoly amy ٥ ce Lt ley jy abel oo Lat Waly oslo op Le


٤ After the third Allahu akbar, to supplicate for the deceased is sunna. This
supplication should not relate to anything other than the matters pertaining to the
hereafter. If however, one supplicates for the deceased with that, which is


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٣.
* Bukhari ١٣٣٥.
" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٣ and Nur al-Idah ١٨١.


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٩٧


transmitted from the Prophet, it is superior and more effective. And from these
supplications is what Auf Ibn Malik((God be pleased with him))learnt from the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)), which is[O Allah, forgive and have
mercy upon him, excuse him and pardon him, and make honourable his
reception. Expand his entry and cleanse him with water, snow and ice, and purify
him of sin as a white robe is purified of filth. Exchange his home for a better
home and his family for a better family and his spouse for a better spouse. Admit
him into the Garden; protect him from the punishment of the grave and the
torment of the fire]. And Auf Ibn Malik said(I wish I was that deceased person).


ily J lb ٣ cles no op dnl Jide dns


After the fourth Allahu akbar, the finishing salams are observed without
supplication, and this is the most evident opinion on the matter, though, some
scholars have permitted one to say, 'Our Lord! Give us good in this world and
good in the hereafter and save us from the torment of the fire'."


SI ٥ AS pe Gade aby Vy


The hands are not be raised(for the takbirs), except for the first one based on the
report of Ibn Abbas and Abu Hirairah that the Prophet during the observance of
a funeral prayer raised his hands for the first takbir, but not after that.' However,
many scholars choose to raise their hands for every takbir owing to a narration
that Ibn Umar observed it.'


JL Garrhe pics Sy ate | Lae pL AS gly


If the imam says 'Allahu akbar' a fifth time, the followers do not join him, rather
they wait for the finishing salams of the imam, and this is the opted view on the
matter.


If the deceased was insane or a young boy or girl(who had not reached puberty),
then one is not to supplicate forgiveness for them because they have committed no
sin, rather one should supplicate; O Allah, make them a source for our salvation; and
make him/her a source of reward and treasure for us; and render him/her an intercessor for us,
and one whose intercession is accepted.


; Muslin, at-Tirmidhi, and an-Nasai.
* Al-Bagarah ٢٠١.

* Darqutani ٢/٧٥[Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٤].
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٤.


٢٩٨ BOOK II: FUNERALS


call fo LATE LN gol


The One Most Entitled To Lead The Funeral Prayer
Sue ٥>١ oth
The sultan(ruler)has the most right to lead the funeral prayer.


١٢
After the sultan, his deputy is the one with the most right. The deputy is the one
the sultan chooses to lead the people in his absence.


oils


Subsequent to the sultan's deputy, the judge is the one with the most right to lead
the funeral prayer because he is in charge with authority and implementation.


lel
Then the imam of the locality(i.e. the imam who is responsible in that area).
Sal


Then the guardian(or the family member responsible for the deceased)provided
it is a male. The female has no right to conduct the funeral prayer and neither a
boy. The father of the deceased has more right to be imam than the son. Abu
Hurayrah narrated the following from the Prophet((God bless him and give hirm
peace))[Three supplications are accepted: The supplication of the oppressed, :he
supplication of the traveller and the supplication of the parents to their child]."


Laatel(a acy dy O٣١ WL pti ٥> oe ne cl)one ee Of o pid OSL Ul past j> I cis


ot ct fee ope ane dae Vy els]The one with the most right to lead the funeral prayer may give permission to
others to lead the prayer. And if others(with the lesser right)lead the funeal
prayer(without permission and in the absence of the ruler and his deputies), them
the one with the most right may repeat the prayer if he wishes. And the peole
who prayed the first time(with another imam)are not required to repeat he
prayer should it be repeated.


ay call Jo cade DL US gol of God led pasta, J oes
The one most entitled to lead the funeral prayer has more right than the perom
whom the deceased instructed in a will to lead the prayer after his death, and he
fatwa issued is according to this view. The reason this is the case is because he
instructions of the deceased as to who leads the funeral prayer after his death i s


invalid.? Meaning, if the deceased before dying directed someone in the form ¢ a
will to lead the funeral prayer and then died, it is of no significance, the leadr s


" Ahmad ٢/٥٢٣.
? Maraky al-Falah, ٣٣٤.


BOOK Ill: FUNERALS ٢٩٩


with authority to lead the prayer as earlier mentioned are still more entitled to
lead the prayer. Though some scholars mentioned that if the people agree to him
being imam, then he is more entitled, for verily Umar instructed Suhaib to
perform the funeral prayer and Umm Salamah instructed Said Ibn Yazid to pray
over her and Abu Bakr directed Abu Bardah to perform the prayer over him and
A'ishah directed Abu Hurairah to perform the funeral prayer over her. Scholars
of this view say, "So as for the saying that the will or instruction after death is
invalid — this is disregarded.""
fanny Jae pee daly cond fe pe he A ٣ a١,

If the deceased is buried without a funeral prayer performed over him, then it is
to be offered over his grave, even if the deceased had not been washed, provided
the body has not begun to decompose; and this is determined by a person's
predominant belief. And if there are only seven people present to perform the
funeral prayer, then they should form three lines. That is, the imam stands alone
at the front followed by three people in the first line behind him. This is followed
by two people in the second line and one person is to form the last row. This is


because the hadith clearly states:[If three rows pray upon a deceased, he is
forgiven))]."


daly ٥٩٣ Ud Fler >
The Ruling Of Multiple Funeral Prayers At The Same Time
PVG Lai pig Sol lee IS Salk ts Y SLI carcot fly


If there are several bodies, it is best to perform a separate funeral prayer for each
body. The first funeral prayer is to be performed upon the most pious(and
learned), and then upon the second most pious, and this is the sequence.


PLY lsd JS pws ٠ Sy ere ALA! UL ey gh Lee glare os ge Loy raced dy
If there are several bodies, it is valid to perform a single funeral prayer for all of
them by putting the coffins in a long line closest to the qibla in a way that the


chest of each of them is in front of the imam(i.e. opposite to the imam). See the
diagram below.


LN es hat oo date, OL wally ple! bk dhe jl fans co Al cls
Maintaining the order when placing the bodies in this manner is vital. Verily, the
men are to be placed nearest to the imam, then the boys after the men, then the
hermaphrodites followed by the females, followed by the teenage females. Imam
Hassan related from Abu Hanifa that if all the dead bodies are males, the most


superior and oldest should be placed closest to the imam, and this is also the view
of Imam Abu Yusuf.'


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٥.

? This was mentioned by Ibn Hajar al-'Askalani in Fat'h al-Bari ٣/١٨٧; and Tirmidhi in the
Chapter of Funeral ١٠٢٨[expressed words to that effect]. Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦.


٣٠٠ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS





If the imam prefers he may gather them in a line extending from one side to the
other, horizontally as seen in the diagram below standing near the person who
was known to be most righteous and knowledgeable. "


ea eee ee
YH





law pK Lo lgnsytoly pis lyso Jy


If all the bodies are buried in one grave because of a necessity, they are to be
placed in the opposite arrangement. Note: the opposite arrangement means that
the most superior person who stood closest to the imam and furthest from qibla in
the funeral prayer is placed in the opposite arrangement and is positioned closest
to the qibla at the burial. He is then followed by the one who knows the most
Quran and the knowledgeable as was done with the Shuhada of Uhud. ?


qo sles ٣ adil py ane[rtd PLE ASS hes fb AS Oy ody ce LVL Gack, Vs


Bit aby[SOUL pat


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦.
: Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٦-٣٣٧.


BOOK It: FUNERALS ٣٠١


One who arrives late to the funeral prayer and finds the imam(silent)between
two takbirs, is not to join the imam; rather, he is to wait until the imam says the
next takbir and then enter with him and he is to correspond his supplications
with the imams supplications; and after the imam completes the funeral prayer,
the latecomer is to make up what he missed before the dead body is lifted up
from the ground. If one cannot make up what he missed, including the
supplication before the deceased is lifted, then he is to make up only the takbirs
before the coffin is carried upon the shoulders."


don F pam op PLY ٢S be Vs


A person who was present with the imam at the opening Allahu akbar, is not to
wait for the next takbir of the imam before joining; rather, he joins the imam
straight away. For example; a person who was present with the imam at the start
may have become confused in his intention or was just unaware and thus delayed
his entry into the prayer. In this situation, he is to perform the opening takbir and
is considered as having caught the prayer with the imam and he is to give the
finishing salams with the imam, the reason being is that he was there from the
start.'


corel Sead SG pH JS de NESE dey nam oy


Whoever attends the funeral prayer after the imam has given the fourth takbir,
but before the final salams, is deemed as having missed the prayer and this is the
most correct view. However, Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf said that one is to
perform the one takbir followed by three takbirs after the finishing salams of the
imam, but before the coffin is lifted. The legal ruling[fatwa]on the matter is in
accordance with this view. The same was maintained in al-Khilas and other books.
As to which is the most correct, the disagreement is evident.'


ab ay tel dl drm Sade Dalle Sy


It is somewhat disliked to perform the funeral prayer within the congregational
mosque with the deceased in the mosque. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[A person who prays over the deceased within the mosque
receives no reward].' There are two reasons for this dislike. The first being that
the mosque was not built for that purpose and the second reason is that the
deceased may soil the mosque, and for this reason, it is disliked.


QU fe doll LI amy am le gl


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٧.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٧.
٩ Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٧.
* Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٢٧٥.


Q٢ Book Il: FUNERALS


Equally, it is disliked to offer the prayer if the deceased is outside the
congregational mosque while some people are inside, and this is the opted view
on the matter, and this is regardless if the imam is outside with the deceased.
Though Imam an-Nasafy held that if the imam is with the deceased outside the
mosque, it is not disliked in the agreed view." Note: It is disliked to perform the
funeral prayer on the road or land of the people.


abe Joy bby a Sel ons


If a newborn displays signs of life by crying or making sounds at birth and
thereafter dies, it is to be named, washed and prayed over. The Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))said[When an infant utters a sound(after birth)prayer will be observed over him].


ade fea dy gba BF J cls AG ee See dol,


If a newborn does not make a sound at birth, it is to be washed according to the
preferred view on the matter and thereafter wrapped in a cloth(named)and
buried with no funeral prayer.


Likewise, a funeral prayer is not performed upon a boy(who was taken captive)along with one of his parents from enemy land[dar al-harb; and the reason is that
he takes the rule of his parents, unless one of his parents converts to Islam, in
which case he is ruled as being joined to the parent, thus making him eligible for
a funeral prayer if he dies; or unless the child himself becomes Muslim; or unless
the child is taken captive without his parents, in which case the child is judged
according to the person who took him captive, or according to the land where the
child resides, which is Islamic land, resulting in a funeral prayer upon death. This
applies even to the extent that if a child(of unbelieving parents)is kidnapped and
taken to Islamic territory where he subsequently dies, a funeral prayer is
performed upon his body. Imam Abu Hanifa withheld his view on fourteen
matters in his life, and one of the matters was the child of disbelieving parents
whether or not the child would be in Hellfire or Paradise, though Imam
Muhammad said the following: "I know that Allah will not punish someone with
no sin."*


ale fal Slasia slip Goll Go Gas ye S > PSs lis Mo al,


If a disbeliever dies and he has a Muslim relative(who is present), then the
Muslim relative is permitted to wash the disbeliever as though he is washing a
filthy cloth. He(the disbeliever)is to be enshrouded in a cloth upon completion of
the wash and placed in a grave or may be given to the people of his religion. This


situation may arise in the event that the disbeliever has no family member


: Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٨.
Ibn Majah ١٥٠٨.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٣٩.


BOOK IIl: FUNERALS ٣٠


present. In addition, the Muslim should not take great care in performing the
sunan of the washing. The Muslim may follow the deceased body from a distance.
This indicates that it is not possible for an apostate[murtad]to be washed for he
has no creed, thus the murtad is placed in a hole as if placing the corpse of a dog.
Note: The Muslim cannot enter the grave of an unbeliever because the curse may
also descend upon him, and especially at this time, the Muslim is in need of
Allah's Mercy. Ali narrated: I said to the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))"Your old and astray uncle has died." He(the Prophet)said, "Go and bury
your father, and then do not do anything until you have come to me." Therefore,
I went, buried him and came to him. He ordered me to have a bath, so I had a
bath and he supplicated for me]."


tall De J JS Geb pbliy fl Je Ler Vy


Funeral prayer is not to be performed over a rebel even if he was Muslim. A rebel
person is one who rebels against a just Muslim leader, and this is the agreed view.'
And neither over a highway robber who dies in the battle as a result of his actions.


TAL A)pall GIS Ue STL ply


A murderer who killed his victims by strangulating them(is not to be prayed
over)and neither a determined transgressor who would take up arms at night
time as he ventured through the town, provided he dies in that state. With respect
to the murderer, the reason is because he would course the earth spreading


anarchy and ruin.

Vplik Oly dwat J site"s
A person who is killed due to a family feud(or tribalism is not to be prayed over)even if he is washed. This is punishment and insult from Allah and a warning to
others.

ale fay paren[ly
One who commits suicide on purpose and not due to extreme pain is to be washed
and prayed over according to Abu Hanifa and Imam Muhammad, and it is the
soundest view, because the deceased is a believer who has committed a sin.
However, Imam Abu Yusuf held: prayer is not to be performed upon this person.
However, the agreed view is that if it was an error or due to extreme pain, then
the deceased is prayed over."

Mase ayitol pu fe Y


A murderer who killed one of his parents intentionally and unjustly is not to be
prayed over as a punishment for him from Allah.


! Abu Dawud ٣٢١٤.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٠.
٣ Maraky al-Falah, ٣٤٠.


٣٠٤ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


pisos lel ٣ Jad
Carrying The Deceased And The Burial
٨ yh Spe yt gle oly JS)ary Sle)de i lid -


It is sunna for four men to carry the coffin and(each man)is to carry it for forty
steps. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace said))[Whoever carries a
coffin{janaza]forty steps, then forty major sins are expiated from him]." In
addition, Abu Hurairah said[Whoever carried the bier by its four sides, then he
has fulfilled what is upon him].' It is disliked for the coffin to be carried to the
place of burial on the back of a riding beast without an excuse. Additionally, the
coffin of a child is to be carried by one person, though the carrier will be changed
four times.'


Ugercdibe od he pas VI Lao ٥a od ld shen tig OLS Le pire y arey Le cas pet Lay


ade VL et Poly Je VI


As stated, it is sunna for each person to carry the coffin for forty steps. This is
performed as follows: the carrier is to begin from the front right of the coffin
carrying it upon his right shoulder,' — after which he is to(slide backward and)carry the back part on his right shoulder. He is then to carry the front left side of
the coffin upon his left shoulder — and is to conclude his carry with the back part
of the coffin carrying it on his left shoulder. This process would ensure ten steps
on each side, thus equalling forty. Imam Shafi'i said that the sunna is that two
persons are to carry the coffin with the one in front placing it on the base of his
neck and the one behind on the upper part of his chest. The basis is that the coffin
of Sa'id ibn Mu'adth was bourne like this. We would say that this was due to the
rush of angels bearing him.°


cll ol asl WI gob pay et le Le Crees


It is recommended to walk quickly with the coffin without surging forward in a
way that leads to the shaking of the body. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[Be quick with the deceased, for if it was(a person who was)righteous, then you forward it to welfare, otherwise, you put off an evil thing
down from your necks].° The sunna is to walk at a quick pace, but not the pace
that leads to the shaking of the body.


" Ibn 'Asakir in his History, ٢٧/٨١[Maraky al-Falah ٣٤١].

? Abdur-Rizak in his Musnaf ٣/٥١٢[Maraky al-Falah ٣٤١].

٣ Maraky al-Falah ٣٤١.

* Note: the front right of the coffin will be on the left hand side of the carrier, because the
deceased is placed onto his back. To further explain: there is only one side at the front whereby
one can place the coffin upon his right shoulder whilst moving forward with the coffin.

٥ At-Tabagat of Ibn Sa'id[Al-Hidayah].

® Muslim ٩٤٤.


BOOK It: FUNERALS ٣٠٥


Sell fe oo Ie pass aL SU oe frail yale Lolly


Walking behind the coffin is superior than walking in front of it, just like the
obligatory prayer is superior to voluntary prayer. Ali((God be pleased with him))said[By the One who sent Muhammad with the truth, the greatness of walking
behind the coffin over walking in front is like the greatness of the obligatory
prayer over a voluntary one]."


SL pall by ٠ Sey
The audible remembrance of God is disliked when carrying the coffin. This


includes audible recitation of Quran, for verily upon the people is silence or
inaudible remembrance. There is no harm in weeping silently. And even to
remind those of death should not be observed. The saying behind the coffin[janaza]: "Every living shall thing die" is an innovation. And it is disliked for
women to join."


lprney J٣ stl


It is disliked to sit before the coffin has been placed from the shoulders of the
carriers. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whenever you
see a funeral procession, stand up until the procession goes ahead of you or until
it is put down].* Another hadith in Bukhari states that the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[When you see a funeral procession, you should
stand up, and whoever accompanies it should not sit until the coffin is put down]."


Lm DIS ٥ Lye ydrall Ugh UU Vaias pill pasty


The grave is to be excavated to a depth of half the height of a man's body or to
the height up to his chest if one was standing, and if one excavates the depth
further, it is better.


There are two types of graves - the first type is known as /ahd, which is a grave with an
empty space dug into the side of the bottom of the grave, which is toward the


direction of prayer and is large enough for the body. See the diagram.


The second type is shag, which is a simple trench down in the middle of the floor
of the grave, with low block walls raised along the trench sides, in which the
deceased is placed before the ceiling of the wall is enclosed.


" Transmitted by Abdul-Razzagq in his writing ٣/٤٤٨.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٢.

* Bukhari ١٣٠٧, Muslim ٩٥٨.

* Bukhari ١٣١٠.


٣٠٦ BOOK II; FUNERALS


The Lahd-
in cross section





By y IG Ge Vy eeky


The deceased is to be buried in a lahd grave not in the shaq type(as it is superior).
Though if the earth is soft, it is preferable to use the shaq grave. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The /aAd is for us, and the shaq is for


others}."
ALI Age oye Coll forty


The body of the deceased is to be inserted into the grave from the direction of the
qibla with imam Shafi'i disagreeing. In his view, the body is to be pulled in from
the feet of the grave due to the report that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))was placed like this. The Hanafis maintain that the side of the qibla is
revered, therefore, it is recommended to insert the body from this direction. The
Hanafi argument is based on the narration in al-Bayhaqi that the Companions
placed the Prophet in his grave from the side of the qibla. Though al-Bayhagqi
maintains that this is a weak tradition. It may however be noted that at-Tirmidhi
recorded a tradition on the authority of Ibn Abbas that the deceased should be
placed in the grave from the side of the qibla. It is therefore evident that there is
difference of opinion on the matter."
pews dohe ath fro atl Spey Vw abe Jey ctl eas: aatly J pir

The person placing the body in the grave is to say, "In the name of Allah and
according the religion of the Messenger of Allah, may the blessings of Allah be upon him."
And it is of no harm whether there is one or two persons placing the deceased at
the bottom of the grave. Though the sunna is that they be an odd number."





" Abu Dawud ٣٢٠٢.
٢ « Awn al-Ma'bad, vol, ٣, ٢٠٥-٠٦. Abu Dawud, vol ٢, ٩١٣.


٣M araky al-Falah ٣٤٣.


BOOK III: FUNERALS ٣٠٧


Ball[٢٥ cp Wace Le ait Sam ys


The deceased is made to face the qibla, upon his right side as the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))ordered, when he said[The Bait al-Haram is your
qibla, alive or dead]," thereafter, the knot of the shroud is undone as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))ordered the knot of Samrah to be loosened.


ENG Se)dle SIN yy


Unbaked bricks and bamboo(cane)pieces are then placed over the niche opening
closing off the lateral hollow dug into the side of the grave(with respect to the
lahd type where the body is placed). AlJami al-Saga'ir states that it is recommended
to use mud and cane because a bundle of cane was used on the grave of the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)).'


tly Woy


The use of baked bricks or wood is disliked as these take the rule of construction
and beautification whereas the grave is the place of decay. Al-Hidayah states that
the effect of fire on bricks is detested as it entails bad omen.


SVL ٥ puss


It is recommended to curtain the grave of a female with a sheet until the bricks
have been placed over the niche, though not for the grave of a man, unless there
is a necessity, such as to repel rain. Ali((God be pleased with him))once passed by
people who were burying a deceased, in which they placed a cloth. Thereupon Ali
said[This is performed with women, not men].'


The grave is then filled with earth as a cover for the deceased. It is also
recommended to sprinkle three scoops of earth upon the grave. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed the funeral prayer and then
attended the grave and inserted earth near the head thrice."


Cet V٩ sil py


The grave is to be shaped like a hump and is not to be flattened into a square(cube)shape because the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))prevented
such actions."


dy Mate etl ٢٥
" Abu Dawud ٢٨٦٩
Ibn Abi Shaybah. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٣٠٣/٣٠٤. Al-Hidayah.
٣ Al-Baihaqi ٤/٣٤.
' Darqutani ٢/٢٧.


> Muslim ٩٦٨.


٣٠٨ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


To build something on the grave for beautification is unlawful. Buildings on
graves have been emphatically denounced by the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[The Prophet forbade the graves to be plastered, or they be
used as sitting places or a building to be built over them]."


Cobal pill y LAM GY)obit te: lS DU(ate LSI)٠ Sy


To build something strong upon the grave after the burial to strengthen it, is


disliked because this will last for life times whereas the grave is the place of decay.
cee Ys SM ad Wd ade StL LY,


There is no harm in writing on(or marking the grave)to prevent its signs from
vanishing and prevent it from being desecrated, and so it can be visited and
respected and serve as a reminder to others.


eA sal mele LVL awolrars S gS yall Soy


It is disliked to use the homes as a burial place, for this is specifically for the
Prophets. Al-Kamal stated, "Neither the small child nor the adult is to be buried
in the house they died in, for this is specifically for the Prophets."


To ٣ Galle Sy


It is disliked to bury a deceased person in places termed alFassagy(like a cellar,
vault, or crypt)which is like an enclosure that is joint to the house, large enough
to occupy a group of people standing. It is disliked because it is contrary to the
sunna.


ADL oI IS oy ty toa pal ٣ Gsoly y AT ypu GLY,


There is no harm in burying more than one body in a grave when there is a need,
and between every corpse, there is to be a division with soil. This was what the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))ordered in some battles, such as the
battle of Uhud.'


PSS My de des iS ٩ Je oy pall Hey ee MOIS Se Gok ory


Whoever dies on a ship and is away from land and it is feared that the body will
cause harm to others, then the deceased is washed, shrouded and prayed over,
and thereafter released into the water. Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal held that the
deceased is to have a weight placed upon him in order to sink to the bottom of the
ocean, and Imam Shafi'i held the same view if they are near the land of the
enemy, otherwise the body is placed tightly between two planks to obviate
bloating and thrown into the sea so that it reaches the shore.


ae ASN ahi Sy LW inks gh fee ٣٥ al LG J Ob J lacs ernie Gln,


" Muslim ٩١٠.
* Bukhari ١٣٤٥.


BOOK I!I; FUNERALS ٣٠٩


It is recommended to bury the deceased in the cemetery of the area he dies in or
is killed. There is no harm if the deceased is moved a distance of one or two miles
before being buried because the distance to the place of burial may amount to
that expanse. Though it is disliked to transport the deceased more than this.
Likewise, it is disliked to move the body from one city or country to another.


beth Oil ١a pains ٥ NOS OF VI pla Wk cio ae dls yt Vy


After the deceased is buried(that is, earth has been filled on top), it is not
permitted to move the deceased to another location according to consensus,
unless the land was taken by force and the owner wants to remove all bodies and
reclaim his right or unless the ground is taken due to right of Shuf'ah(Preemption). Shuf"ah or preemption can be simply defined as the right to
purchase something before others. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Whoever has date-palm trees or land, should not sell it until he offers(the would-be bought thing)to his partner)." The neighbour is therefore more
entitled to purchase the land before others. An example which pertains to Shuf'ah
and the removal of the deceased is the following: a person who owned land sold it
without informing his neighbour. This new owner then buries someone on the
land. However, the neighbour who had forwarded a legal claim with the judge is
awarded the land on the basis of preemption. As a result, this new owner is
permitted to relocate the deceased body or bodies or he may opt to leave them.'


ea EV, Nid peso! jo IG pls
If a person is buried in a grave that was excavated for someone else, then the


value of the excavation is to be paid, and the deceased is not to be removed from
the grave, for it is now his right.


a٣ bi. pl


It is permissible to unearth the grave to search for goods that fell in it such as
clothes or money. It is also maintained that one should only remove soil from the
area he believes the goods fell and extract them.


all a Shey pas Ay


It is also permissible if shrouds were taken by force or theft and their owner will
not accept anything but the shrouds or something valuable remained with the
deceased in which case it is permissible to unearth the grave and retrieve these
effects. Abdullah ibn 'Amr said: When we went out along with the Apostle of God
to al-Ta'if, we passed a grave. I heard the Messenger of God say, "This is the
grave of Abu Righal. He was in this sacred house(sanctuary)protecting himself(from punishment). When he came out, he suffered the same punishment which
his people suffered at this place and he was buried in it. The sign of it is a golden


" Ibn Majah and an-Nasai.
f Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٦.


٣١٠ BOOK III: FUNERALS


bough which was buried with him. If you dig it out, you will find it with him. The
people hastened to it and took out the bough.""


hel ails ely fe shia easy ٢٢ V٥
The grave is not to be unearthed if the deceased was placed in the grave facing a
direction other than that of ka'bah or because the deceased was placed on his left
side. The unearthing of the grave for these reasons is not permitted. And Allah
knows Best.[Maraky al-Falah states. Many Hanafi scholars of recent times hold the view that
gathering near the family of the deceased and remaining until people offer their
condolences is disliked. Instead, when people return from the burial, they are to
disperse and go about engaging in their own matters and leave the family of the
deceased to deal with their duties. It is disliked to gather at the door or pathway of
those who have suffered a calamity, for it is an act of the people of ignorance and
the Prophet prohibited such a thing. This dislike also extends to gathering in the
mosque. It is also disliked to be treated to a feast by the family of the deceased
because being treated to a feast was sanctioned for joyful times and not for times
of grief and it is a repulsive innovation.' The Prophet(God bless him and grant
him peace)said(There is no slaughter('agr]in Islam].? Abdur-Razzaq said: they
used to slaughter cows and other things at graves. And this is what is meant by the
hadith for they would slaughter at the cemetery a cow or sheep. It is however
recommended for the neighbours of the deceased or distant relatives to prepare
food for the family of the deceased so that it would suffice them for the day and
night. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Prepare food for
the family of Ja'far, for there has come to them that which is keeping them busy
or something which is keeping them busy]."





" Abu Dawud ٩٧٦.

? Ibn Abidin states: It is disliked to make food on the first day or third day or after one week;
and likewise, taking food to the cemetery on special occasions(such as Eid)is disliked. The
reality is that preparing or making food for the purpose of eating is disliked, though making
food for the poor is fine. He said: all such acts are for the purposes of show and the desire to be
heard; and they are therefore to be distanced from because the pleasure of Allah is not sought.[Note: there is no issue with reciting Quran over the dead. This is not the issue. The issue is that
nowadays, the family of the deceased is expected to spend a vast amount of wealth on food and
prepare a gathering where they call the righteous to recite the Quran; all of which is for the
purpose of eating and not for the sake of God. The preparation of food in Islam is meant for
good times and not for sad times]. Imam al-Qurtubi held in at-Tadhkira[١١٨]: All such actions
are deemed sunna nowadays and that to leave such a practice is regarded as an innovation; the
situation has thus reversed. Ibn Abbas said: a year will not pass the people except that they
remove in it a sunna and revive in that time an innovation; until the sunan are dead and the
innovations are alive. A person will not practice the sunan and reject innovations except for the
one who Allah has aided in disregarding the anger of the people toward him because of his
acting contrary to their desire.[Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٧].


> Abu Dawud ٣٢٢٢.
* Tirmidhi ١٦١٠.


BOOK Ill; FUNERALS ٣١]It is recommended for men to offer their condolences and likewise for the women
who will not cause discord[fina]. This is based on the saying of Prophet
Muhammad((God bless him and grant him peace))[There is no believer who
consoles his brother for a calamity, but Allah will clothe him with garments of
honour on the Day of Resurrection].' The Prophet also said[Whoever consoles a
person stricken with a calamity will have a reward equal to his].? In addition, after
one has consoled his brother once, it is not a requirement that he do so a second
time.'


٢B oyk٣ ٣ od
Visiting The Graves
ee fe obatly Sle WU teak


It is recommended for men and women to visit the graves of the departed, and
this is the soundest view. It has been stated by some scholars that it is forbidden
for women to visit the graves, whereas the soundest view is that it is permissible
for them to attend. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Visit
the graves,(as it)reminds you of death],* and Fatima would visit the grave of
Hamza every Friday, whilst A'ishah visited the grave of her brother Abdur-
Rahman. The sunna of visiting is to visit standing and to supplicate standing as
the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))performed when visiting al-
Baqi'. A'ishah reported that whenever it was her turn for Allah's Messenger to
spend the night with her, he would go out towards the end of the night to al-Baqi'
and say, "Peace be upon you, abode of a people who are believers. What you were
promised would come to you tomorrow, you receiving it after some delay; and
God willing we shall join you. O Allah! Grant forgiveness to the inhabitants of
Baqi' al-Gharqad.""

Ce gd Le ote IOS try opie dil ait oy ١ pill Joo op shor il J oy
It is recommended to recite the surah Ya.Sin as it has been reported from Anas(God be pleased with him)that the Prophet said, "Whoever enters the graveyard
and recites Ya.Sin(offering its reward to the dead), Allah will relieve them therein and
he acquires the reward equal to the number of them." The author explained that
one who recites YaSin and advances the rewards of recitation to the deceased
shall receives rewards according to the number of deceased people therein as held
by Imam al-Zayla'i,® and that the deceased is relieved from his punishment
therein for that day.'


" Tirmidhi ١٦٠١.

? Tirmidhi ١٦٠٢.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٧-٣٤٨.

* Muslim ٩٧٤.

> Muslim ٢١٢٦.

° Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٩.

" Tuhfatu alAhwadhi ٣/٢٧٥.


٣١٢ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


Anas stated that he asked the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace),
saying: "O Messenger of Allah, if we give sadaga on behalf of our deceased, or
perform hajj on their behalf, will that reach them? The Prophet(God bless him
and give him peace)replied[Yes, it will, and they will be delighted just as one of
you is delighted when a dish has been given to him as a gift]." Thus, a person may
forward the rewards of his actions according to Ahi as.Sunna wal-Jama'a and this
will reach and benefit the deceased as Imam Zayla'i stated. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[Recite Ya Sin over your dead].? And as
stated earlier, the word 'mawtaakum' translated as dead or deceased in the above
hadith leaves no reservation or doubt that the term and meaning is literal and
real. And it is not permissible to leave the literal position unless there is proof to
the contrary. It is therefore necessary that it be specified as literal with the saying
'mawtaakum'


Therefore, one is to donate the rewards of his actions to others according to Ahl
as-Sunna wal Jama'a. The basis is the narration of Ibn Umar who said that the
Prophet said, "If one of you voluntarily gives charity and makes it on behalf of his
parents, then they will receive the reward and his reward will not be deducted."*
And this is regardless of whether the act is prayer, fasting, hajj, charity[sadaga},
the recitation of Quran, invocations and all other righteous acts. This will reach
the deceased and benefit them as mentioned by Imam Zayla'i in the chapter of
Hajj On Another"s Behalf: Moreover, Ali narrated that the Prophet said, "Whoever
enters a cemetery and recites surah Ikhlas eleven times after which he donates the
rewards to the dead, he is given rewards as much as there is dead."


Furthermore, in the explanation of al-Lubab, it states that one is to recite of the
Quran that which easy upon him with respect to the Fatiha, the first part of the
Baqarah as well as the last part including the verse al-Kursi. Likewise, Surah Ya-
sin, Tabarak al-Mulk, Surah at-Takathur and al-Ikhlas twelve times or eleven
times or even seven or three times is to be observed. Following this, one is to say,
"© Allah! Allow the reward of what we have recited to go to so and so.°


The scholarly majority hold that the recitation of the Quran reaches the deceased
whether it is recited at the grave or far from it, especially if the reciter on
completion donates the reward of that recitation to the deceased. Furthermore,
the reciter also receives the same reward without reducing anything from his
reward or the reward of the deceased. The position of the Hanafis and Hanbalis is
that a Muslim is entitled to donate the reward of any kind of worship he performs
to whomever he wishes of the Muslim dead.





" Al-Kamil ٢/٣١٣.

* Abu Dawud ٨٨٠ and an-Nasai and Ibn Habban graded it a sound narration.
*Maraky al-Falah, ٣٢٢.

'-Tabarani fil Awsat ٧/٣٥٨ / Maraky al Falah ٣٥٠.

Parqutani and mentioned by al-Ja'luni in Kashf al-Khafa ٢/٢٨٢.[Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٠].
"Hashia Ibn Abidin.


BOOK ١١١: FUNERALS ٣١٣


eadl G pal fe sel AU Op» dle SY,


There is no dislike if the reciter of Quran sits near the grave in order to recite the
Quran in tranquillity, and this is the opted view.


Legh yy dol ٥ pal pill Joo grille Sy


It is disliked to sit near the grave for other than reciting Quran. In addition, it is
disliked to step or walk upon a grave due to lack of respect. Abu Hurairah
reported the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))as saying[It is better
that one of you should sit on live coals which could burn his clothing and come in
contact with his skin, than he should sit on a gravel].


Ugele dL Lady gly


It is disliked to sleep on a grave and it is prohibitively disliked to relieve oneself
on a grave whether it is urinating or defecating.


tA ce tly Atl Abs


To remove moist grass or trees from the graves is disliked for the reason that as
long as the grass or trees remain moist, they supplicate to Allah. And with the
remembrance of Allah, His Mercy descends, upon which the deceased is relieved.
The proof is the Prophet's actions when he passed by two graves. He took a green
branch of a date-palm tree, split it into two parts, and fixed one on each grave.
The people said, "O Messenger of Allah! Why have you done so?" He replied, "I
hope that their punishment may be lessened till they(the leaves)become dry."


Lae itl ale bY,


Though there is no harm in removing dry grass or trees because their purpose has
ended, i.e. their invocations.


Jogetll pS ob


The Rules Of Martyrdom(Shahada)Literally, the term Shahid has many meaning; such as: a)the one whose testimony
is true and b)one who dies in the path of Allah. It is given this expression(i.e.
dying in the path of Allah)because the angels of mercy bear witness to him or
because he has present with him that which will testify to his actions, namely his
blood and injuries; or because he witnessed dar alSalam with the exiting of his
soul. And Allah knows best. The term Shahid in its legal sense, is given below.


" Muslim ٩٧ ١.
٢ Bukhari ١٣٦١.


٣١٤ BOOK III: FUNERALS


ee
The Reality Of A Martyr(Shahid)According To Islamic Law
Gace abel oo dl pall


A person who is killed has died in his fixed time according to AhlasSunna wal-
Jama'a. That is, he has died in the time Allah decreed for him regardless of the
cause of death.


Bry sl fier hy AS pe Be pall ol je bl pas gt al fal plo At fal ab oo ett
Be toy dye dln y olidy par ٦ SLE WIL ee DIS y ¢ stone Line Ab plas abd gl slay ٤٥ pall
w tl Laat


A Shahid is one who is killed by combatants of war, or rebels or by a highway
robber(regardless of the murder weapon), or is killed by a thief in his home at
night(or day)even if it is with a heavy object, such as a rock or solid entity.
Additionally, one is deemed a Shahid if he is found on the battlefield and the
signs of injury are manifest, such as damage, breakage, burning or blood from the
eyes or nose; or he is killed deliberately by a Muslim from oppression with a
sharp instrument, such as a knife/sword. And in all these cases, the person killed is
Muslim, mature and free from menstrual periods, postnatal bleeding and sexual
impurity[janaba]and is not murtatha, meaning his death is not delayed until after
the end of battle, it is before. If for example one remains alive for a period of time
while the battle is still ongoing and then dies, he is regarded as a Shahid. Though
if he lives on and dies after the battle ends, then he is regarded as murtatha.
Murtatha according to scholars is one who is carried away from the battlefield
injured, though still alive and dies after the battle ends."


Ang ae owas
What Is Done With A Shahid


The Shahid is shrouded with his blood and clothes, is prayed over and not given a
bath. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased with him))said: "The Apostle of Allah((God
bless him and give him peace))commanded to remove weapons and skins from
the martyrs of Uhud, and that they should be buried with their blood and
clothes."? The deceased is removed of effects that are not suitable as shrouding
such as armour, weapons, wool or sponges, as the Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))ordered in the above hadith.





'Nur al-Idah ١٨٨
'Abu Dawud ٣١٢٨.


BOOK Il: FUNERALS ٣١٥


wl b patry lps


One is to add or take away from the clothes of the Shahid if he is not wearing


enough to fulfil the sunna or is wearing in excess of the sunna shrouding.
lent Ep ٠ Ss
It is disliked to remove all of the clothes of the Shahid. This is so that the marks


of battle remain on him.


The Following Are To Be Washed According To Abu Hanifa
cLid gl Late sili pe shlie she Lio! puny


The Shahid is washed if he is killed in the state of sexual impurity{junubda]or is a
boy, insane or in the state of menstrual periods[hayd]or postnatal bleeding[nifas]according to Abu Hanifa." The reason is Handhalah Ibn Rahib(Allah be pleased
with him)was martyred on the day of Uhud, thereupon the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[I saw the angels washing Handhalah Ibn Abi
Amir between the sky and the ground with nimbus and water]. Abu Sa'id then
said, "We went and observed him and his head was dripping with water." The
Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)then sent us to inform his wife,
upon which she informed us that he was in a state of sexual impurity].'? And the
reason with respect to the boy and insane is that the sword compensates for the
washing of persons who are characterised with sin, though for a boy and insane
person they are free of this attribute of sin. Hence, they are not included in the
meaning of the Shuhada of Uhud.


AS yall cy JB gl fans yay Brad Oy cae gl es sha yl eb shops sl sl Ob S Al Lad te £٥)! JI
BS PWS, AS sh s ptt sl pu sl gol gle Poteby GY


Likewise, a person whose death is delayed until after the battle has ceased is to be
washed. This is called irtithath. This person is no longer regarded as being in the
category of the Shuhada of Uhud for the reason that he has used the faculties of
life. The person will still be rewarded as a Shahid but will not be considered
among those martyrs who are exempt from the major bath before burial. The
status of irtithath is achieved by eating, drinking, sleeping or taking medicines
after the battle has ended. It is also staying alive until the time of a written prayer
passes during which one is sane. Likewise, one is regarded murtatha by being
transferred from the battlefield to seek treatment, not for fear of being crushed on
by a horse, or he left instructions preparing for death, or he sold, bought or spoke
many words, in which case he is given the status of irtithath and is subsequently
washed. However, with respect to the ruling of the hereafter, one is deemed a


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٤.
? Ibn Habban ١٥/٤٩٥, Hakim al-Mustadrak ٣/٢٢٥.


V١٦ BOOK II]: FUNERALS


Shahid and will receive the reward promised for a Shahid." The reason one is
deemed murtatha is because he has availed the faculties of life and has been
governed by the rule of the living. The Shuhada(Martyrs)of Uhud died thirsty
even though water was being circulated amongst them. They did not accept it for
fear that they might lose this honour of Shahada. They were removed from the
battlefield so that animals would not trample on them. Beyond this, they did not
enjoy any rest.'


١S wd Yo dela ١٥ Ssb sey ol,


If however, one of the abovementioned points occurs(such as eating or drinking)before the battle ends, then one is not classified as murtatha by such actions;
rather he is deemed a Shahid


ale frag og٨ gl tome J sh[Ub tow al ler dy pall GL oy peey


A person who dies in the city(or other place)and the cause of death is unknown;
that is, it is not known whether he was killed because of oppression or because
someone exercised the penalty of hadd upon him(legally executed by order of the
judge for crimes committed)or whether it was a result of an eye for an eye, then
such a person is bathed and prayed over. Such persons are not considered
Shuhada.


In sum, a complete Shahid(in this life and the hereafter)is one who is sane,
mature, Muslim, free from major impurity, who dies after being struck(to the
extent that he does not eat, drink, sleep, seek medical treatment or removed
from the battlefield alive - rather he is removed dead). The ruling according
to Abu Hanifa is that he is not bathed and is shrouded with his clothes after
being stripped of that which is not fitting for shrouding, such as weapons,
armour and the like. He is prayed upon and buried with his blood and clothes.
The second type of Shahid is regarded as a Shahid of the hereafter; and it is
the one who is missing one of the above conditions, such as being killed in the
state of sexual impurity, menses, or is a boy, insane or did not die after being
struck(but lived on), or is killed by accident. Such persons are deemed
Shuhada of the hereafter but are not classified as complete Shuhada. They
will receive the reward that Allah promised the Shahid. Such persons are
bathed, enshrouded, and the prayer over them is like the prayer of others.
Persons similar to Shuhada of the hereafter are those who die by drowning,
burning, or one who dies as a result of the collapse of a wall, or during the
path of seeking knowledge, tuberculosis, fever and so forth. They are to be
washed, shrouded and prayed upon even though they are Shuhada of the


hereafter.°


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٤.
* Al-Hidayah.
* Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٢٩٧-٢٩٨.


The Chapter
of 'Fasting


SS ASM pac MAG ily iS ass pal ApS yas Ag Ma


PAT ey v EY av


٣١٨ BooK IV: FASTING


Book IV: The Chapter Of Fasting
CONTENTS:


The Reality Of Fasting(Definition)The Reason Which Obligates Ramadan

Its Ruling And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
Conditions That Obligate One To Fast Ramadan

The Conditions that Validate Fasting

The Pillars of Fasting

The Outcome of Fasting


The Types of Fast And The Description Of Each Type


The Types Of Fast For Which It Is Conditional To Be Specific In The
Intention And To Form It At Night; And When It Is Not Conditional
The Fast That Does Not Require A Specific Intention
The Fast That Does Require A Specific Intention


Sighting The Moon And Fasting On The Day Of Doubt
Establishing The Moon Of Ramadan
The Day Of Doubt
The Ruling Upon One Who Sights The Moon Of Ramadan
Verification Of The Moon With An Obstruction In The Sky
Verification Of The Moon With No Obstruction In The Sky
Establishing The Remainder Of The Months
The Ruling Of Seeing The Moon From Different Places


That Which Does Not Nullify The Fast
What Nullifies The Fast And Requires Expiation And A Makeup Day


The Expiation And That Which Excuses It
The Expiation


What Nullifies The Fast Without Requiring Expiation
When It Is Necessary To Refrain From Eating In The Day


What Is Disliked When Fasting And What Is Recommended
Disliked Actions During Fasting
What Is Not Disliked When Fasting
That Which is Recommended When Fasting


Fortuitous Circumstances
The Ill, The Pregnant And The Breastfeeding
The Traveller


٣٢١
٣٢١
٣٢٢
٣٢٣
٣٢٣
٣٢٣
٣٢٣
٣٢٣


٣٢٤
٣٢٨


٣٢٨
٣٣١


٣٣١
٣٣١
٣٣٢
٣٣٣
٣٣٤
٣٣٥
٣٣٦
٣٣٦


٣٣٨


٣٤١


٣٤٤
٣٤٥


٣٤٦


٣٥٢


٣٥٣
٣٥٣
٣٥٤
٣٥٥


٣٥٦
٣٥٦
٣٥٧


BooK IV: FASTING ٣١٩


What Is And Is Not Required Of One Who Breaks Fast Due To A Reason ٣٥٧


The Elderly ٣٥٩
One Who Vowed To Fast His Entire Life And Weakened As A Result ٣٥٩
When Is The Fidya Not Valid ٣٦٠
The Permissibility Of Breaking Voluntary Fast With Or Without A Reason ٣٦٠
Fulfilling One's Promise Such As Fasting, Prayers And Other ٣٦١
When Is One Required To Fulfil His Vow ٣٦١
The Ruling Of Vowing To Fast The Two Days Of Eid ٣٦٣
That Which Is Disregarded In A Vow And That Which Is Binding ٣٦٣
Religious Retreat « T"tikaf » ٣٦٥
The Definition of Religious Retreat ٣٦٥
The Types Of Religious Retreat ٣٦٦
When Is It Permissible To Exit The Masjid In I'tikaf ٣٦٧
That Which Is Disliked During Religious Retreat ٣٦٨
What Is Unlawful In P"tikaf And Its Nullification ٣٦٨


The Legality Of I'tikaf, Its Status And Wisdom ٣٧٠


٣٢٠ Book IV: FASTING


BOOK I"V: FASTING ٣٢١


eral ob J rai


The Chapter Of Fasting'
pall dai>
The Reality(Definition)Of Fasting
Lal ops Ss CANN a get yey ٦ cbt pS Le gl Ula Ue gh lee oot Sle al ye Ile SLY yp

Fasting is to abstain during the day from allowing anything to enter into the
stomach through the mouth, nose, or cavity in the body, whether intentionally or
by mistake; or that which has the same legal status of the stomach such as the
brain.' In addition, fasting is to abstain from sexual gratification;? and one's
abstention from eating, drinking or sexual gratification is to be in unison with the
intention of fasting.' Equally, this abstention is to be from a person who fits the
criteria for fasting, such as being Muslim, sane, mature, and free from menstrual
bleeding and postnatal bleeding. Note: with respect to the intention(which is
knowing in one's heart that one will fast that day), it is rare that one would fast without
an intention. In the exceptional case that one does not intend the fast overnight,
then one may still do so up to the time just prior to midday.


" Lexically, fasting is to refrain — whether it is refraining from speaking, actions, eating,
drinking or from other things. The legal definition of fasting is given above.

? For example: if a person suffers an injury and he places medicine upon it; the fast is void if
the medicine penetrates the cavity and enters the body.

> Such as sexual intercourse or to emit sexual discharge due to foreplay.

' The intention of fasting is to have a firm resolve in one's heart upon the act in order to
distinguish one act from another. And to make one"s intention with the tongue is not
conditional. Furthermore, the intention is required regardless of the type of fast, such as the
obligatory, wajib, voluntary; even the make-up fast[gada]. Al-Ikhtiyar states: that the intention
of fasting is a stipulation, and it is to know in one's heart that one will fast. It is not conditional
that the intention be affirmed on the tongue; and there is no disagreement concerning the
beginning of the time of intention, which is when the sun sets; though they disagree concerning
its end time. Zufar said, "The intention is not conditional for the resident of sound health,
because the time is specified, such that no other act of fasting is accepted in that period except
Ramadan. Therefore, if one refrains from that which the law has commanded, then it fulfils the
obligation of Ramadan." We say, "It is an act of worship that cannot be valid without an
intention, just like all the other acts of worship; and because the Prophet said[Action are by
intentions}; and also because refraining from eating, drinking or sexual gratification may be the
normal habit or routine for many people; or it may a remedy for the sick or it may be a diet for
those who exercise. The only way to specify this is with an intention, such as one does when
rising for prayer." As for the permissibility of allowing the intention(of fasting)to be formed all
the way up to midday(prior to the sun reaching its peak), we say that Ibn Abbas reported that
the people awoke on the day of uncertainty. A bedouin came and said, "I have sighted the
moon." The Prophet asked him, "Do you testify that there is no god except Allah and that I am
the Messenger of Allah?" He replied, "Yes." The Prophet said, "Allah is great, one Muslim is
enough for the Muslims." He then began the fast and ordered others to fast. He ordered a caller
who called, "Those who have eaten should not eat for the remainder of the day and he who has
not eaten is to fast.(Abu Dawud ٢٣٤٠ / at-Tirmidhi ٦٩١ / an-Nasai fil Mujtaba vol. ٣, ١٣٢ / Ibn
Majah ١٦٠٢. Ibn Khuzayma authenticated the hadith ١٩٢٤ / Ibn Habban ٣٤٤٦).[Al-Ikhtiyar
١٨١-١٨٣}.


٣٢٢ Book IV: FASTING


erally
The Cause Which Obligates Ramadan
ASV Cae a ٩p JS ٩ er ٠ jm ٢ gt Oban ye yey


The cause, which obligates the fasting of Ramadan, is one's presence in the time
that is correct to fast,(this therefore excludes the night). And the arrival of each
day of Ramadan is a reason obligating one to fast that particular day. We said
earlier with respect to prayer, that when the prayer time arrives, one is obligated
to pray. Likewise, the arrival of the month of Ramadan is a cause obligating one
to fast its month, and each day is a cause for the fast of that day. Thus, the month
of Ramadan is a general cause, while each day is the cause for the fast of that day.
Al-Ikhtiyar states; "The intention of fasting is condition for each day, because
each day is a day of worship one by one. Does one not see that if one ruins a day
of the fasting, that it does not prevent the rest of the days from being correct?!
Additionally, if a person matured or embraced Islam during Ramadan, then he is


required to fast that which remains of that day and the rest of Ramadan and not
what has passed."


asl asl by ٣ aa S>
Its Ruling And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
olathe lad pace! oo Je clay lal ob yay


It is obligatory to perform the current Ramadan as well as making up an
unperformed Ramadan which was missed, provided one meets four conditions,
and they are;


Fatty Jaally oI


Islam, sanity and maturity. One must be Muslim, for the verses of Quran and
hadith with respect to Ramadan are aimed at Muslims. Also, fasting is not
compulsory upon an insane person or one who has not attained maturity.


PHY la ٠S gh I lat pled oo ye Ih pally


To have knowledge that it is obligatory is required by law. This is therefore a
condition for those who accept Islam on enemy land where there is little
likelihood in knowing the requirements. One who lacks this knowledge on enemy
land is not obliged to fast provided he became Muslim in that place. However,
one may become aware of this obligation by being informed by two upright
Muslims, though the two companions maintained that it is not a condition that
they be upright. In contrast, a person being on Muslim land makes Ramadan
obligatory because ignorance is no excuse for him in this situation.


" Al-Ikhtiyar ١٨٢.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٦.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٢٣


egal lal ope y by
Conditions That Obligate One To Fast Ramadan
ULV y play > ٩ ٦p op dona: wll Oye b Atay


The conditions that make it obligatory to fast Ramadan are; to be free from ill
health,' menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding and to be a resident. If one is
travelling, then fasting is not compulsory, though if it is achievable, then it is
better to undertake its performance.


pe pallelsl inne by


The Conditions That Validate The Fasting Of Ramadan
odents Ey peliry pam pe ably Le bly al: SW shld bit,
The conditions that validate the fasting of Ramadan are three; they are, a)the
intention, b)to be free from anything that is contrary to fasting, such as menstrual
periods or postnatal bleeding and c)to be free from all things that break the fast.
atti ye MILA,


It is not a condition to be free from sexual discharge. This means that a person
may have had unconscious discharge while sleeping, or one may have had
intercourse prior to dawn and did not remove the filth until after dawn. This
discharge that remains on the body or clothes until after the dawn arrives does
not affect the fast.


trall ٣٥)The Pillar Of Fasting
be GAT beg ely phd ٥ sgt Lad ٣٦ US AS ٥


The pillar of fasting is to abstain from the desire for food, sexual intercourse and
that which has the same legal status of both, such as medicine entering the body
through a deep cut.


prall ٣I
The Outcome Of Fasting
ehel ails HW Golly LU yc Cot ll b yin Koy


The legal consequence that is derived from fasting is: the compulsory obligation
that one is obliged to perform is cleared. And the individual is rewarded in the
hereafter, by the will of God and Allah knows best.


" The law requires that one be of sound health. If one is ill, then he is permitted to break the
fast and make up the day when he recovers.


٣٢٤ Book IV: FASTING


jai
pad JS Olay + ¢ pall Lisi
The T; Fasts And The Description Of Each T;
eLsl x. JJ Cal ents
Fasting is divided into six types;
٠٩ Say Jey oydiny Opry oly ٣
١- Obligatory(fard)٢- Necessary(wajib)٣- Sunna
٤- Recommended(desirable)٥- Voluntary(nafl), ٦- Disliked.
Og psd AUS poy oLaady olal Oar, p pos ygd ٥٢ all Ll


١- As for the obligatory fasts, they are, i)the fasting of the current Ramadan or an
unperformed Ramadan, ii)expiation fasts(kaffarah)which a person must perform
should he violate certain rules during Ramadan, and iii)nédhr(which is the fast
one vows to perform, and this is according to the evident view due to the saying of
Allah[Then let them abide by their vows]."


HE cys odendl Le ola: yg Gol SLM,


٢- As for the wajtb type of fast, it is the voluntary fast that was ruined(meaning, if
a person begins to observe a voluntary fast and thereafter breaks it, then it
becomes necessary to make up as an act of worship).


Co pa elaptle pe pe Oretiul,


٣. As for the sunna type, it is the day of Ashura(which is the ١٠" day of
Muharram)including the ٩". The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))sent a person on the morning of Ashura to the villages of Ansar around Medina(with the following message): He who got up in the morning fasting(without
eating anything)should complete his fast and he who had breakfast in the
morning, should complete the rest of the day(without food). The Companions
said; We henceforth observed that.


PE al My fe CMS gaye pel UM ES Sats pet IS op BH ٦ pe ygd Stl Ul


pt ably





" Al-Hajj ٢٩
٢ Muslim ١١٣٥.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٢٥


٤ The recommended fast is the fasting of three days of every month. And it is
desirable to perform these days in the white days of every lunar month, which is
the ١٣", ١٤" and ١٥". They are named the white days at that time, because the
light of the moon is strongest and the brightest as Abu Dawud narrated[The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would order us to fast the three
white(days)of ١٣", ١٤" and ١٥". The Prophet said, "This is like keeping
perpetual fasts."!


tls yl(rx?


It is recommended to fast on the Mondays and Thursdays of each week. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The works of the servants are
presented(to Allah)on Monday and Thursday, so I like that when my works are
presented, I am observing fast].


Mea i Jy ploy Lab: fob oF Sy oe como pes


It is recommended to fast six days of the month of Shawwal, and it has been said
that these six days are to be fasted consecutively(immediately following Eid-al-
Fitr), though it has also been said that the six days can be fasted intermittently.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[He who observed the
fast of Ramadan and followed it with six(fasts)of Shawwal, it would be as if he
fasted perpetually].> Meaning, Allah multiples good by ten times, thus by fasting
thirty days of Ramadan it comes to three hundred, and fasting the six says of
Shawwal brings a reward of sixty days. Thus, fasting for thirty-six days equals to
fasting the entire year. There is some difference of opinion among the jurists
whether fasting for six days successively, immediately after Eid al-Fitr is superior
to fasting six days randomly throughout the month of Shawwal. Imam Shafi'i,
Ahmad and Abu Dawud hold the view as six consecutive days.


Pd Le ge platy Le ys pray ONS pA Sy SHrall ale oho ¢ pad ¢ HadL ale Je gly lb Fp po |S y
SLs att Sf amily pled! pail


It is recommended to fast any day which is established as being mentioned by the
Prophet and one which the sunna promises reward for, such as the fasting of
Dawud(Peace be upon him)in which he would alternate his days by fasting one
day and breaking the next. This is the best fasting and the most beloved to Allah
as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Fast one day and
break the other day. That is known as the fasting of Dawud and that is the best
fasting].'


aaah S mats MU WS ٥ ye gg asl,





" Abu Dawud ٢٤٤٣.

At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Fasting ٧٤٧.
> Muslim ١١٦٤.

* Muslim ١١٥٩.


٣٢٦ BOOK IV: FASTING


٥- As for voluntary fast, it is that which is not mentioned in the above categories,
provided it is not established as a day that is disliked to fast. Meaning, if it is
established that there is no dislike in fasting on a particular day, then there is no
harm in undertaking its performance.


LF ٠٩ Soy lee po ٠٩ Sec Wd s٤i oy SU LL,


٦- As for that which is disliked, there are two types. The first is somewhat disliked
and the second is prohibitively disliked.


Cell ye lo pe ol tle po JVI


The first type(which is somewhat disliked), is fasting the day of Ashura alone(١٠° Muharram)without joining with it the ٩° of Muharram. Ibn Abbas((God be
pleased with him))said; When the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))fasted the day of Ashura and commanded us to fast on it, they(the Companions)said; "Apostle of Allah, this is a day which is considered great by the Jews and
Christians." The Apostle of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))said,
"When the next year comes, we shall fast on the ٩" of Muharram." But the next
year the Apostle of Allah breathed his last." This indicates that one is to fast the
٩" and ١٠" of Muharram.


Bells pale pe : Gly


The second type of fast that is prohibitively disliked[makruh tahrim], is the fasting
on the day of Eid al-Fitr, Eid al-Adha and the days of tashriq, which are the ١١",
١٢" and ١٣" from the month of Dhul- Hijjah. Abu 'Ubaid, the freed slave of Ibn
Azhar reported; I performed Eid along with Umar Ibn al-Khattab(Allah be
pleased with him). He came out in an open space and prayed and after completing
it addressed the people and said; "The Messenger of Allah((God bless him and
give him peace))has forbidden fast on these two days. One is the day of Fitr and
the second one, the day when you eat(the meat)of your sacrifices."


inatl py ol slo Sy


It is disliked to single out Friday alone for a day of fasting, unless it coincides with
one's regular days of fasting or unless one connects the Friday with the previous
day or day after. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Do not
single out Friday among days for fasting unless one among you is accustomed to
fast(on days)which coincide with this(Friday)].' The Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[None of you must fast on a Friday unless he fasts the
day before or after].


" Abu Dawud ٢٤٣٩.
* Muslim ١١٣٧.
* Muslim ١١٤٤.
* Abu Dawud ٢٤١٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٢٧


cele y ol als


It is disliked to single out Saturday for a day of fasting unless one connects the
Saturday with the day before or after it, or unless it coincides with one's regular
days of fasting.


sole Jil ge OF YJ Ole yell sl jy ples


It is disliked to fast on the day which is celebrated by Persians; and the day
celebrated by atheists(i.e. the first day of autumn), unless these coincide with
one's regular days of fasting.


ATG dill pe feats go> Meal oy All dey pets VOI eye ey gy dose p٠٠ Ss


It is disliked to perform continuous(uninterrupted)days of fasting, even if it is
only for two days; and the description of this is; on the first day of fasting, one
does not break his fast after the sunset until he has fasted the next day and
reached its night. Ibn Umar said that the Prophet(God bless him and grant him
peace)forbade continuous uninterrupted fasting. They(some Companions)said,
'You yourself fast uninterrupted,' whereupon the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said, "I am not like you. I am fed and supplied drink(by Allah)during the night."" Commentators are of the view that the observance of
uninterrupted fasts was the special prerogative of the Prophet(God bless him and
grant him peace).


Pileyoe sy


It is disliked to fast for one's entire life(that is, every day for the majority of one's
life)for the reason that one will become weak and the fasting will become a
routine in which the purpose of fasting is lost.


" Bukhari ١٩٦١.


٣٢٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


b fay Wey ٦ ab end All Oe bts Ld ua


The Types Of Fast That Requires One To Be Specific In The
Intention Prior to Dawn; And When It Is Not Conditional


Note: there are several types of fasting where a person is required to be specific in
his intention - and to make the intention at night prior to dawn. There are also
other types where this specification is not required.


A pi ed BAL Y sill e pall


The Fasting That Does Not Require A Person To Be Specific In The Intention,
Nor To Form The Intention At Night(Prior To Dawn)٥٠ eed Vy tI es I bALY gil aI LI


As for the type of fasting for which it is not conditional to be specific in the
intention, nor to make the intention at night prior to dawn is when;


Olas; bol


١- One is fasting the month of Ramadan; for indeed, the fast is valid if the
intention is made during the night itself(from sunset)until a short period before
the noontime. Hence, it is not a condition to be specific in the intention, nor to
make it at night prior to dawn.


jess al)pall pasly


٢- It is not a condition when one has vowed to fast a specific day. This means, if a
person has vowed to fast on a particular day, he is not required to be specific in
the intention, nor to make it at night when that day arrives. For example, on
Monday, one vowed to fast on Thursday. Therefore, on Thursday it is not a
requirement to be specific in the intention, nor to form the intention prior to
dawn. The fast is valid with an intention made during the period, which is from
sunset the previous night until just before midday.


٣- Likewise, it is not a condition for voluntary fasts(nafl).
SH y SN anal ¢ lb ya yi tai y ee fo sg tas JF Le Sf op Se Cerner
Gr ٦ penal


These three types of fast' are valid if one makes the intention during the night
itself up to a short time before midday. And the description of this period
"midday" is from the break of dawn until the time before the sun reaches its peak.
This means it is valid to make the intention for the above types of fast from any time from
sunset the night before - up to the midday of the actual day of fasting(prior to the sun"s zenith.


" That is, a)Ramadan, b)a vowed fast which is specified for a particular time and c)nafl.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٢٩


A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported, The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))came to me one day and said, "Is there anything with you(to
eat)?" I said 'no'. Thereupon he said, "I shall then be fasting."'


SH Sle OWS Sy(Leal)fact aay all Glens(fats ccna ly colaey alal ٣ JS)Last evar
cell Gla


These three types of fasts are also valid with a general(unspecified)intention of
fasting or an intention of a voluntary fast, even if the person(who intends them)is a
traveller or sick, and this is the most correct opinion. Meaning, if any person
whether he is a traveller or sick person forms a general intention without
specifying the kind of fast to be observed or an intention for a voluntary fast
during Ramadan, then it counts as Ramadan. The reason this is permissible is
because Ramadan is already in a fixed time and therefore does not need to be
specified and according to the Sacred law; no one can perform other fasts during
Ramadan, except the fasts of Ramadan. In the principles of fiqh, this is termed
wajib Mudayyig. This also applies to a vowed fast which one has specified with
respect to its timing. For example; a person who vowed to fast on Monday can
intend this day as a voluntary fast and the vow of fasting that day is thereby
achieved through this intention. This is because the day has previously been
specified, and for this reason one is permitted to have a general or voluntary
intention.'


rls ce aly ٦ ae Sb BLU Goby ٦ ete bree OS ol eT oly Sy Olas, olal evens


It is valid to fast the month of Ramadan with the intention of performing another
wajib fast, though the wajib fast is not valid. And this rule applies only to one of
sound health or a resident, though contrary to the traveller for the reason that
Ramadan is not compulsory on the traveller, which means if he intends a wajib
fast, such as a vow fast, then whatever he intends of the wajtb fast is accepted and
not Ramadan, as is one narration from Abu Hanifa. Though the two Companions
maintained that it is Ramadan that is accepted.


Obaes gol bart ٥٩ ١٥)aS eee Al ably


There is difference of opinion amongst the scholars about the sick person who
intends another wayib fast during his fasting of Ramadan,(whether the wajib fast
is accepted, or whether it counts as Ramadan). Shams al-A'imma stated that the
soundest view is, 'It is regarded as Ramadan and not the wajib fast, and this is
reiterated in the book al-Burhan. Though Imam Hasan stated that whatever one
intended is what is accepted, and this view was opted by the author of al-Hidaya.°


" Muslim ١١٥٤.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٦٢.
٣ Maraky al-Falah ٣٦٣.


٣٣٠ Book IV: FASTING


Table ١ displays what is and is not fulfilled for a person who intends anothe:
wajib fast during Ramadan whereas table ٢ summarises the different intention:


which are valid for Ramadan.
Table |
Resident and healthy person intending | Ramadan is accepted, whilst the wajib fast
another wajib fast in Ramadan remains outstanding.
Traveller intending another wajib fast in | The wajib fast is fulfilled.
Ramadan
A sick person intending another wajib fast in | Scholars differed as to which is fulfilled.
Ramadan


Table ٢


















Valid with


With the intention of
a voluntary fast.





Ramadan is valid with
the intent to perform
other wajib fast, though
the day is counted as
Ramadan and not the
wajib fast. Applies only
to a resident or one of
sound health


A general
unspecified intention
of fasting.












Performing a vow | A general


unspecified intention
of fasting


Performing a A general intention
voluntary fast


٤ orl ype ol gi ce ats fee one arly dy ile Oualll py tll eas Vy


With the intention of
a voluntary fast





A promised fast which is specified with respect to its timing, such as on ;
particular day is considered unfulfilled if one performs the fast on that day with :
different wajib intention. Verily, what is accepted is the different wajid intentior
intended on the day. Meaning; if a person vowed to fast a specific day, and upor
arrival of that day, this person performed the fast intending a different wajib fast
then what is accepted is the latter, while the original specified fast remains a deb
which must still be fulfilled.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٣١
TS Cd ab b pts Gl ¢ pall


The Fasting That Requires One's Intention To Be Specific,
And To Form It The Previous Night


٨ eg NN i I bp Lt yey GU aL,
As for the second type, it is a condition to be specific in the intention(for the fast to be offered)the previous night prior to dawn. This is required,
Siasjelas
١- When one is making up an unperformed Ramadan(that is, gada).
AB cps otntl Lb olay
٢- When one is making up a ruined voluntary fast,(that is, the gada of nafl).
Wet gl AUS » poy


٣- When one is performing the expiation fasts(kaffarah), as well all the other types
of expiation fasts such as the expiation of breaking an oath.


Lets! fea cee pe Leb city ye all ae Of: a)a٥ Glall ji,


٤ It is also conditional when one vows to fast in a general way, such as the saying
"If God alleviates my illness, then I will fast a day" and thereafter he regains good
health. Hence, when this person decides to honour this day, he is required to be
specific in his intention and make it the previous night prior to dawn.


ope AL ٦ pe ٣٩ SM ٢ ٤(ei oad
Sighting The Moon And Fasting On The Day Of Doubt
Ola, Jao yt
Establishing The Moon Of Ramadan
JB oe O! EW Shas ay sl Je ٤٥ y Oar Od


Ramadan is established when the moon is sighted. And if the moon is not visible,
the people are to complete the month of Sha'ban as thirty days and then begin
fasting. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said[Fast when you see
it, and break your fast when you see it and if the weather is cloudy, calculate it(ie.
the month of Sha'ban)as thirty days]." Note: The lunar months consist of either
twenty-nine days or thirty days. If the sky is clear, the people begin and end
fasting with the sighting of the new moon and if the sky is overcast then they have
been instructed to complete thirty days of Sha'ban and thereafter begin the
fasting.


" Muslim ١٠٨٠.


٣٣٢ BOOK IV: FASTING


The Day Of Doubt(Uncertainty)JHB ob TL ably bal Gb ad ٥ ped Ay Las oe on aly ot LL ye LM


The day of doubt is the day after the twenty-ninth day of the month of Sha'ban.
Due to overcast conditions that have concealed the moon on this doubtful day,
there is an equal measure of knowledge and ignorance with respect to the reality
of the situation.


Please bo SHE We pe VWepe[Sado Sy


It is disliked to fast during this day except a voluntary fast that one is firm about
with no wavering(in the intention)between it and between other fasts. Hence, the
intention of a voluntary fast must be firm with no wavering or hesitation. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The day of doubt is not to be
performed as a fast on the belief that it is Ramadan, rather it is observed as a
voluntary fast]."


wales be ace lil Olas; po al gb oly


If it appears that this day is from Ramadan, then one's voluntary fast suffices for
that of Ramadan. In other words, what one fasted is valid for that of Ramadan.
Note, this issue has several variations. First, if a person forms the intention of
Ramadan, it is disliked. Though if it becomes evident that it is from Ramadan,
then his fast is valid(as that of Ramadan)because he witnessed the moon and
maintained the fast. If it becomes clear that it is still the month of Sha'ban, then
his fast is regarded as a voluntary one. Second, if a person forms an intention of
another wajib fast, it is also disliked, except that this dislike is lesser than the first
case. If it then becomes evident that this day is from Ramadan, then his fast is
valid(as that of Ramadan)due to existence of the basic intention. If it appears
that it is the day of Sha'ban, then it is regarded for him as a voluntary fast. Third, a
person may form the intention for a voluntary fast, and there is no dislike about
this on the basis of the hadith. Fourth, one can make the intention itself
conditional, in that he will form the intention if it is Ramadan, but he will not if it
is from Sha'ban. With this type, he is not deemed as a person who is fasting
because he is not decisive in forming his intention. Fifth, is that he makes the
intention conditional regarding its details, in that he will form the intention to fast
if the next day is Ramadan, and if it is from Sha'ban, then he will fast on account
of another wajib fast. This is disliked due to indecision between two conditions
that are both disliked. If this day appears as Ramadan, then, his fast is valid
because he was unwavering in the structure of the intention itself. If however, it
turns out to be from Sha'ban, then his fasting of another wajib is not valid."[Bs SS bby ples gad ٢٠, dL)" Al-Zayla'i vol, ٢, ٤٤٠.
* Al-Hidayah ١٢٩-١٣٠.


BooK IV: FASTING ٣٣٣


If one is hesitant upon the day of doubt between fasting and breaking fast, then
he is ruled as not fasting, such as the saying, "/f it is Ramadan, then I am fasting and
if it is not, then I. am not fasting," and the reason one is ruled as not fasting is because
he is not decisive in his intention. And if it later appears that the day is from
Ramadan, then one is required to make up the day.


ai gd Lo SV Obes ole ey slo pepe ٠٥s
It is disliked to fast a day or two at the end of the month of Sha'ban. Though it is
not disliked to fast more than two days The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[Do not fast for a day or two ahead of Ramadan except a person who


is in that habit of observing a particular fast and he fasted on that day]." The
reason is that there should be a clear distinction between the two types of fasts.


J one dy SN Fy ٠٣ ١٣]UNG oF AL oye gL UI ill ob,


On the day of doubt, the mufti orders the people to wait(without the intention of
fasting). Afterwards, when the time for intention expires and the day did not
appear as that of Ramadan, the mufti orders the people to break the fast.


Mam Hey OI)٣ Jeo Al ٦ ants deans ys Sats oye gay pol Bl op ONS sey gelaly(pall ٤٥ ¢ pany
vw Al oF ٦٥٥


Though the mufti, judge and the elite are to fast during this day of doubt(as a
voluntary fast); and the elite are those able to control themselves from wavering in
their intention and able to differentiate their voluntary fast from the obligatory
one.


Olas SMa shy pe pS
The Ruling Upon One Who Sights The Moon Of Ramadan
hyd Je cis ill ٥٥ Vy placid na ioyy etm y bill sl Oar, J Gly oy


Whoever sees the moon of Ramadan alone, yet his statement is rejected by the
judge, he is required to fast on his own, for Allah said((So whomever witnessed
the month of Ramadan, must fast)).? Though if one sees the moon of Eid al-Fitr
alone and his statement is rejected, he is not permitted to break his fast even if he
is sure he has seen the moon of Shawwal.


Cel D gAlilors Le Lio bd US yc ade BUS Ys gd on SIG bil Of,


And if a person breaks fast in both these situations(i.e. when witnessing the moon
for the month of Ramadan and the month of Shawwal)then he is to make up the
days, though he is not liable for expiation(kaffarah)even if he broke his fast
before the judge had rejected his statements, and this is the correct view.


" Muslim ١٠٨٢.
? Al-Baqarah ١٨٥.


٣٣٤ BOooK IV: FASTING


de SL ols tb]Ua,


Verification Of The Moon If There Is An Obstruction In The Sky


Syed ٣ Cope bes)٩ cereal Spgs gh Je daly pe fo ope sh Le sl ae oye dhe ol IL obs tL y
Sad b pts Vy clas)OU G٥٥ Gla sae gl ed gl SV OS Sone fis)y alte aol dalgt de(am ٩M GMb y UN FAS)٥ get Vy colt


If there is an obstruction in the sky, such as clouds or dust, the imam is to accept
the testimony of a single upright witness or one whose situation is unknown, and this is
the correct view. And the imam is also to accept the news(of the sighting)even if
someone else of similar status to the witness — testifies based on what the witness
told him. For example, an upright person named 'X' sees the moon. He then
informs another upright person named 'Y' about what he saw. Person 'Y' then goes to
the judge and informs him that person 'X' witnessed the moon, and this is
accepted. Person 'Y' also needs to be of equal status to person 'X', such that if
person 'X' is upright, then person 'Y' is required to be upright — and this is the
meaning of the words(of similar status to the witness).


And the testimony of the single upright witness or one whose situation is
unknown, is accepted even if such a person is a female, slave, or one who has
repented after being punished for accusing others of sexual acts. And it is not a
condition for such a person to utter the words of the shahada as to what he
witnessed(which is "I bear witness that.")and neither is it conditional for one to
be subjected to legal proceedings or commissions. We therefore accept his news
without legal proceedings, or commissions, because he is informing about
something, he is not giving legal testimony in court."[Al-Hidayah states: The
imam is to accept the testimony of a single person who is in possession of moral
probity, for the sighting of the moon, whether such person is a man or woman, a
free man or a slave]. Furthermore, if one sees the moon, he is required to inform
about this in-front of the judge in the same night if he is in the city. If he resides in
a small town(and is an upright person), then he is to inform about it between the
people regarding what he saw or do so in the mosque and they are to fast
according to his testimony."


S٢٩ > SN on op lg had De ol IL ol٥ ٣ Jha Jd bt
If the sky is obstructed for Eid al-Fitr, it is conditional for the imam to have the
testimony from two free men or from one free man and two free women and it is
conditional that they say the words of the shahada(when they inform about what


they witnessed, such as "/ bear witness.")though they are not to be subject to legal
proceedings or commissions.





" Hence, the news of the sighting is accepted without commissions where the judge presides
over the case hearing arguments and counter claims and so forth. Such a thing is not stipulated.
Furthermore, such legal proceedings or commissions are also not stipulated in other matters of
law, such as the freeing of a slave.

? Maraky al-Falah ٣٦٩.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٣٥


de ol Sh ٠,٥ J ١٣]St od
Verification Of The Moon If There Is No Obstruction In The Sk
SES ٢ phe clan aatl slang pally Olas J pclae aap ye be W Ule eS ٣S ١ IL,
cel dplyl


If there is no obstruction in the sky for Ramadan or Eid al-Fitr, then the testimony
of a large gathering is required. Abu Yusuf says fifty people are considered as
being a large gathering. However, the determination of a large gathering is
entrusted to the opinion of the imam(meaning, the imam will determine what a
large gathering is)and this is the correct view.


waa)JE Y drrareltty ill SMe» dy ٢٥ dolgry adall oi Lal"s


If the people begin Ramadan based on the testimony of a single person, and then
they complete thirty days of fasting and thereafter no one sees the moon of Eid al-
Fitr even though the sky is clear, it is not permitted for them to cease fasting(which is the view agreed upon in the Madhhab. This means that the person who
first witnessed the moon of Ramadan was mistaken, and that it was not Ramadan.
Hence, they are to fast this day).


Oban cach phy Ade of SL US ١٣]pleat Jo Gr GHH Vy « te Bolger O١٥ lo}ed ear pl tha ly
> Jl isale,


Scholars differed in that if Ramadan is established based on the witnessing of two
upright persons(and then thirty days are completed and yet no one sees the moon
for Eid al-Fitr even though the sky is clear); do they fast another day? Or do they
celebrate Eid al-Fitr? Some in the Madhhab maintain that they are to break their
fast and celebrate Eid as held in ad-Darayya, al-Khilasa and al-Bazaziyya.
However, others maintain that they are to remain fasting given that the moon was
not seen in a clear sky, which indicates their mistake. Their testimony therefore(i.e. of the two witnesses)becomes invalid.' Though there is no disagreement that
the people are permitted to cease fasting if the sky is obstructed upon completion
of thirty days, even if Ramadan is established on the testimony of a single person.


alls eel Jn",


And the moon of Eid al-Adha takes the same ruling as Eid al-Fitr.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٠.


٣٣٦ Book IV: FASTING


There must be a large gathering
to sight the moon


Or one whose situation is
unknown, but it is not evident
that he is a wrong doer


There must be a large gathering
to sight the moon


It is conditional to be from two | Or one free man plus two free
free men with shahada(without | women(with shahada, without
commission)commissions)Ramadan(no obstruction)One upright person(with no
shahada or commission)Ramadan(obstruction)Eid al-Fitr(no obstruction)and al-Adha





Eid al-Fitr(obstruction)and al-Adha









Via ro)Establishing The Remainder Of The Months


SbF cpa tt Fe OS oy > ol dae le dls VI LAI bit,


It is conditional in establishing the remainder of the months; the testimony of two
upright men((or one man and two free women))and these individuals must not
have previously been punished for making false accusations of a sexual
intercourse against others. Note: This judgement applies when there is an
obstruction in the sky; for if there is no obstruction a large gathering is required."


coUalt HI oe
The Ruli Seeing The Moon From Different Places
GPE sly call ley ail lb ob - WI sl hb alr GOS Ils

If the sighting of the moon is confirmed in a region, it is necessary upon all the
people in all the other regions and to adhere to this sighting, and they must fast
accordingly. This is the most evident view in the Madhhab and the fatwa issued is
in accordance with this view and one in which the majority of the scholars have
maintained. Therefore, the people of one region(or city)who fast ٢٩ days would
be required to make-up a day if the people of another region fasted ٣٠ days with
their sighting of the moon. This is because the Prophet's words "Fast when you see
the moon" are general and inclusive of all Muslims.[fbn Abidin in his Hashia states.)The different regions are not taken into
consideration according to the evident view in the school; a view which the
majority maintain and the fatwa coincides with. Therefore, the people of the west
are to act in accordance with the sighting of the people of the east.[The explanation
provided in al-Hashia states.| The disagreement with respect to the different regions
means, is it necessary for each region to consider only what they see in their
region and not be required to act in accordance with other regions; or do they
disregard other regions and act according to the first sighting(to the extent that if
it is seen in the east on Friday night and in the west on Saturday night, are those


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٠.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٣٧


of the west required to act in accordance with the sighting of the people of the
east?). One view maintains that each region takes its own ruling as held by az-
Zayla'i and the author of al-Fayd. It is also the sound view in the Shafi'i school.
However, the most evident opinion, which is relied upon in the Hanafi, Maliki
and Hanbali school is the latter view(that the first sighting is a sighting for all
Muslims)on the basis of the words of the Prophet "Fast when you see it.""


Muhammad Ali Sabuni in his Tafsir Ayat al.Ahkam explains whether or not different
regions are disregarded or accepted. He says: "The Hanafi, Maliki and Hanbali
schools maintain that the different regions are disregarded; so that if the moon is
seen in one country(or region), then it becomes necessary on the rest of the
regions in the world to fast or break the fast. This is because the Messenger's
words "Fast when you see it and break your fast when you see it" includes the entire
nation of Muhammad{ummah]. So whoever sees it in any place, then that sighting
is a sighting for all Muslims.[He adds.]The Shafi'i school maintains that each
region that is far from the other takes its own ruling and the sighting of one does
not count for the other.""


The Shafi'is hold that if the moon is confirmed in one district, then people of the
surrounding districts are required to fast if they are close. Such closeness is
determined as being less than twenty four farsakh.' As for those far away, they are
not required to fast on the basis that the regions differ.'


Moreover, it is worth noting that A'isha(God bless her and be pleased with her)said, "The breaking of the fast for each nation is the day their group breaks their
fast and the sacrifice[adha]of each nation is the day their group sacrifices."* Abu
'Isa explained that some of the people of knowledge explained this hadith by
saying that it means that the fast and the breaking of the fast is done with the
group and the masses of the people.


Jeol GAM ALY gay ote, sh Sy Ld OS oh le SH ٤٥ one V٥


If the moon is sighted during the day(whether it is before noon or after noon
time), it is disregarded and is considered as belonging to the following night, i.e.
the ruling of that day does not change, for the Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[Fast when you see it]clearly indicating that one must first see
the moon prior to fasting and what is understood from this, is sighting the moon
at night according to the Companions and the Tabi'in and those after them. And
this is the opted view on the matter.


' Radd al-Muhtar vol. ٣/٣٦٤ | Third Edition, Dar al-Kutub al-'IImiyya Beirut.

? Tafsir Ayat al-Ahkam vol. ١/١٩٦.

* Note: one farsakh is equivalent to three miles. Therefore, twenty four farsakh is equal to seventy
two miles.[Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٩].

' Kitab al-Figh 'Ala al-Madhaahib al-Arba'a, Abdur-Rahman al-Jaziri ٥٠٠.

> Talha reported it from A'isha in Al-Musnad from Abu Hanifa from Ali from Al-Ahmar from
Masrugq who said.[A]-Ikhtiyar vol. ١/١٨٦]. The same was mentioned by Tirmidhi ٦٩٧.


٣٣٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


pall tnt Ye ol
That Which Does Not Nullify The Fast


bw Oy ney in| ٣
There are generally twenty-four things that do not nullify fasting:
Let ale shot sl fst JL


Eating, drinking or having sexual intercourse forgetfully, does not break the fast.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If anyone of you
forgetfully eats or drinks(while observing fast)he should complete his fasting, for
Allah has fed him and given him to drink]."


SIG ٥٥ SS Joly vo pS pte ٠ Sy JSb oly op ٠ Sig pall fe Bytd gt OS do},
٠ Si ete


If one has the ability to fast, yet he forgetfully eats or drinks, then he is to be
reminded of fasting by onlookers, and failure to remind him is disliked. If on the
other hand this person appears to have no strength or ability to fast, then it is
better not to remind him.


Sadly SN plal oly ٥٣ ١ bs Jt I


If a person has an orgasm because of looking or thinking about the sexual area of
a female, it does not break the fast, even if one stared or thought about it for a
while. And the reason fasting is not void is because there is no intercourse and not
even a picture or form resembling it. The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[Three things do not break a person's fast; vomit, cupping and
discharge].


ail> J donb tes gly Joost gl - prot si


Applying oil to the body does not break the fast. Likewise, the application of
eyeliner(kohl)does not break the fast even if the taste appears in the throat, and
even if the colour appears in the saliva, because A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))narrated that the Prophet applied eyeliner(koh!)while he was fasting.'


ea! ٣
If one is subjected to cupping, the fast is not broken because((The Prophet was
cupped whilst he was muhrim and while fasting))." Note: There is a hadith
attributed to the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))that he said[The


cupper and the one who is subjected to cupping, breaks their fast], the meaning
here is that they lose their reward, not that their fast is broken.*





" Bukhari ١٩٣٣.

? At-Tirmidhi and Darqutani. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٤٤٦.
٣ Ibn Majah ١٦٧٨.

' Bukhari ١٩٣٨.

٥ Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah and al-Baihagi.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٣٩


wel I


If a person backbites, the fast does not break. The hadith which is attributed to
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))when he was passing by two
men, one was being cupped and the other was the cupper and they were
backbiting another person, thereupon the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said, "That their fast is broken." This means that they have lost their
rewards for fasting.'


paz Ly jail os ٥٥ ٥h


If one intends to break his fast, but does not do so, then he has not broken his fast
because the person did not undertake the action.


dane Wit > ail> Joo gl


If smoke enters the throat unintentionally, the fast does not break for the reason
that is was unintentional and therefore unavoidable.


as peal S١٣ yay ٣ ٥٢! gab I gl bd loo tbll Le Jy Le si


Likewise, if dust, even the dust of flour, or a fly or the taste of medicine
accidentally enters the throat while one remembers he is fasting, then he has not
nullified his fast. Note: one may have had medicine prior to dawn and the taste
lingered in the mouth until long after dawn.


ULLL Leys patel gly c Lex anv yl


If one awakens in the state of sexual impurity[janaba](due to a sexual dream or
sexual intercourse before dawn)the fast does not break, even if one remains in
this state for the entire day or many days. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said{The Apostle of Allah would be overtaken by the dawn when he was in a state of
major ritual impurity(when he was fasting)].'


Las gl eb all>]Gr JI


If water or medicinal oil is poured in the opening of the penis, the fast remains
sound according to Abu Hanifa and Imam Muhammad, though contrary to Abu
Yusuf. It is as if Abu Yusuf considers that there is a passage between this opening
and a body cavity for which reason urine emerges. Abu Hanifa understands that
the bladder provides a barrier between them and urine is pushed out through it.
This is something that does not belong to the category of fiqgh. The answer is to be
given by a medical expert. This is similar to cases that fall under tahgig al-man'at.'


wl oll prs le ye ٣


" Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah and al-Baihaqi | Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٢.
? Abu Dawud ٢٣٨٢.
٣ Al-Hidayah.


٣٤٠ BOOK IV: FASTING


If one enters a river and water enters inside the opening of the ears, the fast does
not break.


a٣]Syl eal ٠٥٩ ache ¢ dab o ya, aid Uo I


If a person places a twig in his ear(or an ear bud)and withdraws wax with it and
then re-enters the twig back into his ear again, the fast does not break according
to the agreement of the scholars, because this wax or general dirt does not reach
the brain.


anlaly line atrnuld ble asl[>> yi


If nasal mucus enters the nasal passage and is sniffed back into the throat and
swallowed on purpose, the fast remains sound.


diary bls LMS be ae po dns Vg absall lil any


The mucus(or phlegm)of the throat must be expelled so that it does not break
the fast according to the saying of Imam Shafi'i(God have Mercy on him), for the
reason that a person has the ability to emit it from the mouth.


YAY)cemeall Sold He gy aarre nay(٤٠ ٣٣ Le)ae Cy)das YIIS)y DI(ade y dene gl)٦٥٣ ٥١
Gole ٤ sday


If one inadvertently vomits, the fast does not break even if it is a mouthful. This is
due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[If
one had a sudden attack of vomiting while one was fasting, no atonement is
required of him, but if he vomits intentionally he must make atonement];" and
likewise if the vomit(that came up)turns back inside unintentionally and is a
mouthful, the fast is not broken according to the most correct view held by Imam
Muhammad because he is not nourished by this and because it does not resemble
the picture of one who is breaking his fast, which is to swallow in the real sense.
However, Abu Yusuf says that the fast is void.


cewnall baled sy ernall fo ado fo ope Ji(OLS g art af Land ١H)olin I


Intentionally vomiting /ess than a mouthful does not break the fast according to
the most sound view, even if the vomit that came up goes back inside according to
the correct view. This is the opinion held by Abu Yusuf saying that the vomit has
not come out legally. On the other hand, Imam Muhammad held that one's fast is
nullified if he intentionally vomits less than a mouthful.


dahl O٥٩ ٠S, cul le Ist jl
If a person swallows the traces of food that remain between his teeth from the pre-
dawn meal, it does not break the fast provided it is less than the size of a


chickpea. The reason it does not nullify fast is because it is judged as part of the
saliva, and this is something of which one is unable to avoid.


" Abu Dawud ٢٣٧٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٤١


Chewing something like sesame that comes from outside the mouth until it melts,
does not break the fast provided the taste does not appear in the throat. However,
if one swallows a sesame that comes from outside the mouth, then his fast is
broken according to Imam Muhammad. Note, chewing without letting anything
enter the inside and swallowing a sesame that comes from outside the mouth hold
two different rulings. The latter breaks the fast while the former does not. If on
the other hand one swallows a sesame that was stuck between his teeth, then the
fast does not break as mentioned earlier.


clad! as ٣ USI ٢ £٩ ٦ pall tae bb ob


What Nullifies The Fast Requiring Expiation" And A Make-up Day
PISS, Ladd ag)leas pb bdeace Laile Ups Lt pial fad I]Lt Oy ey OL yay
There are twenty-two things, which if performed willingly and intentionally
without being compelled, results in the termination of the fast and requires a
compulsory make-up day and expiation to atone for the violation. They are:
a Synally Jet fe hell sol § elt


Having intercourse in either of the passageways(vagina or anus)breaks the fast of
both the doer and the receiver of the act and makes them liable for expiation and
gada(to make up the day). This is due to the completion of offence. Note, the
ruling is the same whether one has an orgasm or not because in this case carnal
desire is satisfied even without it. Moreover, Imam Shafi'i restricts the obligation
of expiation for intercourse only and not for eating or drinking."


٤ Sgly gl a Gebity Le ad lpn o pttly SW


Eating or drinking whether it is for nourishment or for a medicinal benefit(even
if it is minimal)breaks the fast and necessitates expiation and a make-up day.


aed SI Jo pee pI,


To swallow rain water after it enters the mouth, breaks the fast and necessitates a
make-up day and expiation.


٣٩٢ U٣]Vj La OS Ly oS endl sly





" There are several actions that if performed during the day of Ramadan, results in the
nullification of the fast, a makeup day, and an obligatory expiation in order to atone for
the major violation. The expiation consists of freeing a sound slave, though if one does not
have the means to do this, then he must fast two consecutive months. And if one is unable,
then the expiation is to feed sixty unfortunate persons twice. In the event that the
expiation is not performed, then it remains as an unperformed obligation upon the person
concerned.


? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٤٢٧.


٣٤٢ BOOK IV: FASTING


Eating raw meat, even if it is damaged requires expiation and a make-up day.
Though if the meat is worm infested, it does not necessitate expiation for the
reason that there are no nutrients left in the meat of which benefit is derived."


Sb yl tall ht G ptt sty


Eating the fat(or grease of meat)nullifies the fast and requires expiation and
gada, and this is the opted view according to Imam Abi Laith.


GLEYL po Addy


Eating jerked(or cured)meat breaks the fast and necessitates the penalty of
expiation and gada, and this has the agreement of the Hanafi scholars.


ND dod Antes OV Vc pent y dad! jst,


Eating a seed of wheat(or chewing it and then eating it), breaks the fast and
makes one liable for expiation and a make-up day. Except if the seed is chewed
and consequently melts away(leaving no trace in the throat), in which case, the
fast does not break and no expiation is necessary. Indeed, because it is such a
trivial quantity that by melting away and not appearing in the throat, it sticks to
the teeth, which means nothing has entered the stomach.


If one swallows a seed of wheat, sesame or something of the like, things from
outside the mouth(meaning they were not stuck between one's teeth and were put
in the mouth and swallowed), the fast breaks and one is liable for expiation and a
makeup day, and this is the preferred view by scholars.


Glas a Vl nba Jsi,


Eating a beneficial type of soil(known as Armani)nullifies the fast absolutely and
necessitates expiation and gada. And it does not matter whether one is in the habit
of eating it or not. Note, this type of earth is known to contain some medical
benefit. Maraky al-Falah states that this was commonly consumed by pregnant
women to gain some benefit and based on this benefit the expiation is necessary."


alsi steel o}Jaalls oI pe cabal


Eating soil that is non-beneficial, such as dry earth[known as tifil], nullifies the fast,
and necessitates expiation provided one is in the habit of eating it. Though if one
is mot in the habit of eating this kind of soil, then the expiation is not
necessitated.*


SGM Ja cell


" Maraky al-Falah, ٣٧٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٦ point ٤.
Tifil is described as dry earth. Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٧.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٤٣


Eating a small amount of salt nullifies the fast and imposes expiation and gada;
and this is the opted view on the matter. Note: If the salt swallowed is a lot, the
ruling changes in that the fast breaks, but the expiation is not imposed, because


the tendency of man is to veer towards having a small amount of salt, not a large


one.!


LA bY abe shor yi dlp pM


Swallowing the saliva of one's wife or friend breaks the fast and atonement is to
be observed through expiation. The reason being that one is not repulsed from
the saliva of his wife or friend, though if one swallows saliva from other than his
wife or friend, then the expiation is not required because in this case it is detested
by the one who swallows it.


dy JLe cpnd dey gh SSL nb ope dar liae dey gli gg US gle de gb bee de of Ge de Lee abst
AA fe aby gh pa dy Std eae gf asad obsdl ١٣ Y]iy dl acl Ub


If a person intentionally eats after backbiting, or(eats)after being subjected to
cupping, or after touching his wife, or after kissing with desire, or after sleeping
near his wife(touching and kissing her)without ejaculating, or after applying oil on
his moustache because he believes that such acts(such as backbiting and cupping)have terminated his fast, then he is liable for expiation and to make up the day. The
exception however(which excuses the expiation)is if he is given a legal ruling by a
scholar(who said that such acts do break the fast, such as cupping, which some of the people
of hadith regard as a terminator of the fast; and this was his understanding)in which case
he is not liable for expiation because according to the offender, he believed he
had broken the fast(after cupping and backing biting, and so went ahead and ate)based
on the ruling given. And the other exception is if he had heard the hadith of the
Prophet but did not understand its meaning according to the Madhhab, such as[The one who backbites has broken his fast], so he progressed forward and ate
based on what he understood, not knowing the meaning given by the Madhhab,
then in both cases the expiation is excused. Though if there was no such ruling
issued or one did know the meaning of the hadith according to the Madhhab, the
expiation is necessary to perform. And whatever the case may be, one is still liable
to make up the day. /n summan, if a person intentionally eats after the above mentioned
acts, then he is liable for expiation and gada unless an Islamic scholar issued a ruling or the
person did not know the correct meaning of a hadith he had heard according to the Madhhab.


٥ USI abe cam y ab yb Gc of,


If however the person knows the meaning of the hadith he heard(according to the
Madhhab)then he is liable for expiation.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٧.


٣٤٤ BOOK IV: FASTING


ob He Wey Dabs ٩٣.٠ SK OT ٣٥)y٠))(Ugh y Ne)A Se(be ٩)ce gle oo Jo ٣ USN UZ,
٥ USS Cam y le]y ٦ ol S]Updo as ob ne ye Se gles gay ٠ So gry galt yc Olan le Garry)((¢ gual Li}Ske US OY ye


Expiation(kaffarah)is wajib upon a female who willingly complied to have sexual
intercourse with her husband who was forced to have intercourse with her.
Consider the following: an oppressive king forces a man to commit sexual
intercourse with his wife during the day in Ramadan and whilst he is forced, she
willingly complies without being forced. Thus, the expiation becomes necessary
upon her due to the serious crime of compliance and facilitation. Indeed she
actualised the crime from her side in facilitating and allowing her husband to
perform these actions. Another scenario is, if a woman knows that the dawn time
has arrived and yet she allows her husband to have intercourse with her willingly
and he has no knowledge of the arrival of dawn.


Lo oye Upladny Loy ٨ USSG Jud
The Expiation And That Which Excuses It


Abu Hurairah narrated: While we were sitting with the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))a man came and said 'O Messenger of Allah! I have been
ruined.' Allah's Messenger asked what was the matter with him. He replied, 'I had
sexual intercourse with my wife while I was observing fast.' Allah's Messenger
asked him, "Can you free a slave?" He replied in the negative. Allah's Messenger
asked him, "Can you keep fast for two consecutive months?" He replied in the
negative. The Prophet asked him, "Can you afford to feed sixty poor persons?"
He replied in the negative. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))kept silent and while we were in this state, a big basket full of dates was brought
to the Prophet. He asked "Where is the questioner?" He replied, 'I am here.' The
Prophet said(to him)"Take this(basket of dates)and give it in charity." The man
said, 'Should I give it to a person poorer than I? By Allah, there is no family
between the two mountains(Medina)who are poorer than I.' The Prophet smiled
until his premolar teeth became visible and then said, "Feed your family with it."!


wo ٣ i ee oy ot ow gh a> ٩ te US ba


If a person violates the rules in the day of Ramadan, then he has made himself
liable for expiation, however, the expiation is excused if during that same day a
female received her menstrual period or she gave birth and was in the state of
postnatal bleeding(nifas)or during that same day the person was afflicted with an
illness, one which allows the breaking of the fast. If however a person
intentionally makes himself ill such as jumping off a building to injure himself in
order to escape from the expiation, then he has not succeeded because he is still
liable.


" Bukhari ١٩٣٦.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٤٥


Aly MN ale gale pry J de a Sa bye es be Vy
In contrast, the expiation is not excused if one is forced to travel in the same day(after it has already become imposed on him). And this applies even if one travels
willingly. This is according to the evident opinion on the matter. For example, if a
person indulges in sexual intercourse, then it becomes necessary to perform the
expiation. If however, such a person is forcefully taken on travel in that same day
or willingly, one remains liable.


BUS LL
The Expiation
CLL ae eae ad od Cale oy get ple ot jae OP kaye pb OS gly id)» FEU,
cpelte gl pele gl nats ae elas y le ogerny ٢٩ prety LS Ce pabl ¢ yall phar, ٢A Oe Ge
The expiation is the freeing of a slave, be it male or female, who is physically and
mentally sound, even if the slave is a non-believer. And if one is unable to free a
slave, then he is to fast two consecutive months, and these two months must not
coincide with the two Eid days or the days of Tashrig(١١"", ١٢th and ١٣" of Dhul-
Hijjah), for there must be no break between the sixty days, otherwise the
expiation will be invalid. If one is unable(to fast for two consecutive months)then
the expiation is to feed sixty unfortunate people who are to be treated to lunch
and dinner at their respective time, so that they are content. Note: The sixty
people who are treated to lunch must be the same sixty people who are treated to
dinner; or the unfortunate persons may be treated to two lunches in two days or
two dinners for two nights, ie. one every night; or they may be treated to dinner


and a pre dawn meal. Note: if one unfortunate person is fed for sixty days, then it
is valid, because it is equivalent to sixty people.


aad ٣ pat ol of pbs sl ads pe sl abo lp oy Glo iat nib JS aw I
It is also permitted to give each poor person half a measure[sa]of wheat or flour,


or one measure[sa]of dates or barley, or the value equal to the above may be
given to each of the sixty persons.


cell fe lan, op Jy iG allan d ell Gotare ST ple oe Surly ٣S CAS y


One expiation suffices for sexual intercourse committed on many days or for the
act of eating on many days throughout Ramadan even though these(offences)are
days of Ramadan of two different years. This is provided that the expiation does
not fall between two violations(such as sexual intercourse). For example; if one
indulges in sexual intercourse on the first day and then immediately after that
pays the expiation, should he commit a further violation later, then a separate
expiation will have to be given. Therefore, one expiation suffices for multiple
violations committed over many years provided no other violation is committed
after having paid the expiation.


٣٤٦ BOOK IV: FASTING


tly SI lb ٣ ttoly US ٢٥٥ Y aS)! Ys of


If however, an expiation has occurred between two acts of sexual intercourse or
two acts of eating, then one expiation will not suffice and this is the evident view
on the matter as another expiation is required for the second violation.


BUS pe pe ¢ pall Laney be ol


What Nullifies The Fast Without Requiring Expiation


The following cases do not require expiation[kaffarah]on the basis that the nature
of the things that are eaten are such that they contain no nourishment, or they
may contain nourishment but there is a valid reason for their consumption.
Eating something of this nature would not impose the expiation, although the day
must be made up. Moreover, the act which does not include the completion of
desire concerning the genitals holds the same ruling, such as an orgasm due to
kissing.

Other examples include the swallowing of paper which does not require the
expiation on the basis that originally, it contains no nourishment. Equally, if there
is something that is inadequate of being nourishment, such as raw rice or dough
that is unmixed with butter, then the expiation is not required, whilst one is only
liable for the day. Therefore, the breaking of the fast is not one of nourishment or not one
where there is completion of carnal desire regarding the genitals. Additionally, the thing eaten
may contain nourishment, though there is a valid reason for its consumption.


Le O gens dame py
There are fifty-seven things that nullify the fast, but do not necessitate the expiation;
lass sl lie ٣)Cay ١٥٥٤ pilall si la!


If the person fasting eats raw rice, flour, or wheat grain, the fast is nullified
although the expiation is not necessitated.


indo |S LL gl


If a person eats a mouthful of salt, he is not liable for expiation for the reason that
it is not one's desire to have a mouthful of salt; hence, the circumstances are
different.


asl dead go sl pe Leb I
Eating soil that contains no medical benefit and not being in the habit of eating it,
invalidates the fast but does not require the expiation; for the reason that it serves


no medical purpose. Though if one was in the habit of eating this non-beneficial
earth, the expiation becomes necessary.


IAEIS yi Lad sf st ys gl


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٤]Eating the stone of a fruit, cotton or paper, breaks the fast without necessitating
the expiation.


Geta dy Syed He pe ol
Eating uncooked quince or raw quince nullifies the fast whereas the expiation is
not imposed. Quince is a hard yellow shaped fruit which has to be cooked prior to
eating.
ib a٥ ٥x JI
Eating a raw walnut does not impose the expiation. If on the other hand one eats
a raw almond, then the fast breaks and the expiation is imposed.


Ware gL sgl Lys sl sla abut jl
Swallowing a pebble, metal, or soil, nullifies the fast while no expiation is
necessary.
haacenl gl - ol yl
Taking an enema or pouring drops(of medicine)through the nostrils breaks the


fast, whereas the expiation is not required. An enema is generally used when there
is a need, thus not requiring expiation. Note; an enema is having medicine
inserted through the anus. However, Abu Yusuf held that taking an enema and
pouring snuff through the nostrils or throat requires expiation.


mel fe nile Get ew eal yl


The forceful pouring of something down the throat nullifies the fast, but does not
require the expiation. And this is the most correct opinion.


el pele staal ٣ bil JI
To drip water or oil into the ears nullifies the fast, and this is the soundest view.
The fast is invalid because the fluid will inevitably reach the brain through this


action, though expiation is not required. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[The fast is broken with whatever enters]."


ab leo gh ad gm II fro yy clyn ul si itl ٥٥١٠ I


Applying medicine to a wound of the stomach or head, which then penetrates a
cavity reaching the inside of the stomach or brain, nullifies the fast though does
not necessitate the expiation.


dana, dale dy eS elt gl jae ale Joo ٥l


If rain or snow water enters the throat, and is swallowed by accident, it breaks the
fast but does not require the expiation; and this is the most correct opinion. Note:
there is a difference between forgetfulness and accidental. If one swallows
forgetfully, the fast does not break.





Abu Yala. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٤٥٣-٥٤.


٣٤٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


٤٥> SI Lanall eb ٥ las bil I
If one accidentally breaks his fast with the water used for gargling, in that it seeps


down one's throat, then expiation is not imposed upon him.
HILL gly le Se bil J


If one is coerced to break his fast even if it is through sexual intercourse, the
expiation is not imposed.


cl! Je cast sl


If a female is coerced to indulge in sexual intercourse, then the expiation is not
imposed on her.


dm See gh SAS Sal esd oye ٣ FON oye nt fe by & il I
If a married woman or slave breaks her fast for fear of falling ill because of the


duties she performs, then the expiation is not required of her, as the fast is ruined
due to a valid reason.


ell gay ele adge Gtr]wo Jl


If water is poured into the insides of a person who is sleeping, then he is not liable
for expiation, though the fast is void. Note; this person is not like the one who has
forgotten. For example; the one who forgets to mention the name of Allah upon
an animal he slaughters does not render it unlawful to eat. Though if the person is
insane or asleep at the time, then their slaughtered animal is not lawful to eat.
Furthermore, to drink whilst sleep-walking holds the same ruling."
Ce fe ntl ple gh ye Leb alsl ta Lee Jl I

Eating on purpose after eating forgetfully does not impose the expiation even if
one knows the hadith concerning it; and this is the soundest opinion. The reason
the expiation is not imposed is because(eating forgetfully)has a likeness to one
who has broken his fast and this likeness is not over even if one knows the hadith
of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))"The one who eats and
drinks from forgetfulness is to complete his fast."" Furthermore, the hadith is ahad(or transmitted through solitary narration), it is not mutawatir or mash-Aur. It is a
hadith which does not impart affirmative knowledge on its own unless it is
supported by extraneous or circumstantial evidence. The expiation therefore
cannot be imposed on this basis."


Nabe palm od Lael aale gl


If one has sexual intercourse forgetting he is fasting, and then after remembering,
continues to have sexual intercourse intentionally; expiation is not necessary
upon him on the basis of what we have described above, namely that it has a
likeness to breaking one's fast. However, the day is obligatory to make up.


; Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٢.
* Bukhari ١٩٣٣.
> Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٢.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٤٩


ah cee dy Nols ٦g de IST I
If a person eats after making his intention of fasting in the day(and not
overnight), the expiation is not required as held by Imam Abu Hanifa. This was
also the view of Imam an-Nasafi who said, "Expiation is not necessitated if one
breaks his fast after having formed his intention in the daytime."" Zufar on the
other hand held that he is liable for expiation.


JS]SUG ٥ ٥ Lil anol sl
If a person begins the day as a traveller and then intends residence and thereafter


breaks his fast by eating, expiation is not necessary upon him even though it was
forbidden to eat.

SSE ete eral ete JL ol
If a person becomes a traveller after starting the day as a resident, and thereafter
breaks his fast by eating(while he is a traveller), expiation is not imposed upon
him, while he is liable for the day. In other words, if the fajr passes over a person
who has intended to fast that day and before he becomes a traveller, then it is not
permitted for him to break his fast that day, though if he does, then only the day
is required to be made-up."

Bab ٩ p po ٥ Lal sl
If a person abstains from eating with no intention of fasting and no intention of
breaking fast, then the day is not deemed a fast, however, the expiation is not
necessary upon this person, though he is required to make up the day because the
intention is a requirement.


Cle ay prill f gle GIL! aale sl aria sl
If one eats the pre-dawn meal(sahur)or has sexual intercourse during which he


has doubt about the rising of dawn, wherein reality it had already dawned, then
the expiation is not imposed on such a person, though the fast breaks.


ASL ay Oy pal phe phil |
The expiation is not imposed if a person breaks his fast believing that the sun had
set, when it had not.
ct NS Sl clas siti sh dene gh de ob y Sz si

An orgasm due to sexual intercourse with a dead woman or beast or an orgasm
caused by rubbing the genitals between the thighs of someone or by rubbing them
on the abdomen of someone, or due to kissing, touching, or masturbation, does
not impose the expiation, though the fast is void. Note: we stated earlier that if
there is no completion of pleasure by way of carnal desire through a location that
is desired, then the expiation is not necessary, and this is the case at hand. Even if


a person has an orgasm, it not regarded as complete for the reason that it is one
sided.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٣.
* ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٤٢١.


٣٥٠ BOoK IV: FASTING


Olas yelal ne ¢ pao tui! ٥]There is no expiation if a person breaks a fast other than the fast of Ramadan,
though one is liable to make up the day.


USE Ay cocky yl


Having sexual intercourse with a sleeping woman or while she is temporarily
insane, does not necessitate the expiation due to the absence of offence on her
part.

ee ee bdo bil ٥!
The dripping of anything(such as liquid or the like)into the vagina breaks the
fast, but does not necessitate the expiation, and this is the most correct view as it
has a resemblance to an enema.


gad ٣ JEN gx ٥ Gabel slope d jo sl ole Uphe nel fool yl


Inserting a finger which is wet with water or oil into the anus or inner part of the
woman's vagina, does not impose the expiation, though the fast breaks and this is
the opted view on the matter.


SE ge id ol Gedy pa jth fool yl
Inserting a piece of cotton into the anus or the inside of the vagina to the extent
that it disappears, requires gada, though no expiation; even if it was a cloth or


something similar that disappeared. However, if the side or edge of the cotton(or
cloth)remains outside, then it is regarded as though nothing entered.


anna, blo aal> eal ٣


Expiation is not imposed if smoke is intentionally inhaled into the throat, though
the fast breaks.


Cereal yy pill e fering gl boy kly II lb Geille Le Oyo gly elec gl


Vomiting intentionally, even if it is less than a mouthful nullifies the fast without
obligating the performance of expiation and this is the most evident view. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whomever intentionally
vomits must make up the day]." Though Imam Abu Yusuf held that in order for
the fast to be nullified, the person must deliberately vomit a mouthful and this is
the most correct opinion[which means, if a person intentionally vomits less than a
mouthful, the fast remains sound according to Abu Yusuf with no expiation
necessary because he says that a small amount of vomit is as though there was
nothing to begin with and he used as a proof, that the small amount of vomit does
not nullify wudu].


da yaad SI gry ill o Le OS y ٦ ll ope ٤٦٣٣ L olel sl


" Abu Dawud ٢٣٧٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٥١


Likewise, if a person intentionally returns a mouthful of vomit back inside(the
stomach)after it had forcefully risen, and he remembers he is fasting, then he is not
liable for expiation while the fast is void, whereas if he had forgotten, the fast
would remain valid, because it is like a person who eats out of forgetfulness.


Raed! ib Sy SLT Ge Le_ jst of


Expiation is not imposed if a person eats the food that is stuck between his teeth
the size of a chickpea. Though the fast breaks because it is possible to avoid eating
something this size as opposed to a sesame.


Me ope acs SUE! BS LG IST Lt Lle p pall cyl


If a person intended to form his intention of fasting in the day, but he eats
forgetfully before making his intention in the day, then he is not liable for
expiation, though he is liable to make up the day. This means that a person
absentmindedly ate during the day before observing his intention in the day. If he
first intended and then forgetfully ate, the fast would remain valid.


Note: in the following Arabic text, the words from Maraky al-Falah have been included within
the brackets for clarity, since there is a grammatical term that may not be identified correctly.
This grammatical term is referred to as a "waw 'ataf." Furthermore, al-Hidayah ١٣٨ and al-
Ikhtiyar ١٩٣, clearly maintain the same ruling.


was YT YO pt)GG op ID as ٩)tll ae(Ce el)Sy(Gap gg oD ale gael sl
tej)gee AS og)gm ta ye ٩ ¢ pall be ٢٢ yx gl)ald Ge gl ol bY ad Sm Gille pal
Oy be ela de> YoY lly ٥١٥ ٥ SUI Ob)gt a ee pe lige)yo ol(Lat ٩
JM cay hyd de Nle gh Chadd)WY SUL,(SS ٥p)٠ gad an gh Y(gt ge ed ON)ye
RUIN yc pcre gS iN yl G yet DUS Sly It tes ab Vy cad play YI OV ics geal ele ٤)ermnall
CASI net EE pay cla ne y


If one becomes unconscious(i.e. suffers from fainting), even for the entire month
of Ramadan, then he is given the status of that of a sleeping person and is liable
for the missed days, except the actual day in which one fainted. And if it occurred
at night, then one is to make up for the entire period of fainting except the day
that follows this night." Note; this ruling differs with respect to the insane.


If a person suffers from insanity for part of the month, he is to make up the days.
The basis for this is that there is no hardship in making up days which are less
than a month as distinguished from the person who is insane for the entire
month, and is subjected to hardship through performance.


" Al-Hidayah ١٩٣.


٣٥٢ Book IV: FASTING


If one suffers from insanity for the entire period of Ramadan, he is not liable to
make up the days even(if this person is deemed legally insane, such that)he only
recovers at night(from his insanity)or during the day after the time for intention
has passed, because one cannot fast at night and neither after the noontime when
the time of intention has ended.


In Summary


If one faints(or is unconscious)for part of the month of Ramadan or even the entire period of
Ramadan, he is liable to make up the days. If one is insane for part of the month, he is also
liable to make up the days, though if one suffers insanity for the entire month, he is not liable
to make up the days.


shel LST SLY abe CH oped fai
When It Is Necessary To Refrain From Eating During The Da
ar po ded ce Sep See SoS


١- If a person breaks his fast, it is necessary to abstain from eating for the
remainder of the day. This person is also required to make up the day.


pr ¢ gle tay U gb olntiy ail> Jey


٩. If a woman becomes pure from her menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding
straight after the true dawn, then she must refrain from eating for the remainder
of the day. And she is required to make up the day at a later time. As for one in a
state of menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding, it is forbidden for her to fast,
because fasting whist in this state is forbidden and to imitate something forbidden
is also forbidden, and similarly it is not necessary upon the sick or the traveller to
abstain from food, because they have permission to eat due to their hardship.
However, it is sunna for the one who is permitted to eat, to do so in private, not
openly, otherwise one may be accused.


cpr F VY cLadll gale y ٦ f plball day plul Jb٥y Ab po bey


٣-٤ / If a boy matures after true dawn or a nombeliever accepts Islam after true
dawn, they must abstain from eating for the remainder of the day. And they are
not required to make up the day because prior to dawn, they were not subject to
the commands of Allah regarding fasting. Whilst the persons in point one and
point two are liable for the day.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٥٣
een ey ٠ SY[edgy pial ٠ SS |b rai


What Is Disliked When Fasting and What Is Recommended
slab)° ms L


Disliked Actions When Fasting
There are seven things that are disliked when fasting.
phe Weg G٩٩


١-To taste something with no reason is disliked. If a woman has a harsh husband
who will rebuke her for an increase of salt in the food, then she may taste it. If
however he will not, then it is not permitted. Note; the meaning here, is to taste
without allowing anything to enter the insides.


ST Aan y «phe Wy antes


٢- Chewing something without a reason is disliked. It is however permitted if
there is a need for it, such as chewing a small child's food when feeding. However,
this is provided nothing reaches the inside of the body with the saliva. Equally,
chewing on gum is disliked unless there is a reason. The reason for this dislike is
based on the notion that other people who see this will accuse the person of
breaking fast and it is not lawful for a person to assume a position where he will
be accused. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[He who
believes in Allah and the last day, should not stand in the position of blame]. This
is the case even if one has a reason. If, on the other hand something of it should
enter the body with the saliva, the fast is deemed void.


daly MM alb ٣ gl tl MY nt de led ce ols Sly tilly


٣-٤ / Kissing and caressing while fasting is disliked if one is not sure of himself
about having an orgasm or sexual intercourse as a result of such acts, and this is
the evident view on the matter. If however, one is in control and sure that these
things will not result in an orgasm or intercourse, then it is permitted. If someone
would kiss or caress another with lust and an emission results, the fast will break.
sel a NG ers
٥- Gathering the saliva in the mouth and then swallowing it, is disliked.
Uolatly LadlS ata, ol bly


٦-٧- It is disliked to perform any act which is believed to weaken one from fasting,
such as cupping, acupuncture and blood-letting.


٣٥٤ Book IV: FASTING


pial)oS YL


What Is Not Disliked When Fasting
pilal)° ws Y Lol dn y
There are nine things that are not disliked when fasting;
oo a ally La
Kissing and caressing is not disliked provided one is sure(and in control of
himself)that it will not lead to an orgasm or intercourse. A'ishah((God be pleased
with her))reported that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would
kiss and caress his wives while fasting, and he had more power to control his
desires than any of you." If one discharges through kissing or touching, one must
make up that day, but is not liable for expiation."
~ jet CPs
Rubbing oil or lotion onto the moustache is not disliked during the fast.


JAS,
The application of kohl(eyeliner)is not disliked, because there is no direct link
between the eyes and the brain. The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))applied kohl whilst fasting.'


rind,


Cupping(or acupuncture)is not disliked, provided that one believes he will not
tire from such a thing.


saall,


Blood-letting is not disliked if one believes he will not tire from it. Blood donating
is also of this category as this could have a synergistic incapacitating effect.


UL Vighe gh lbs Obs ly SylS ee ye b ig oT ttt,


There is no dislike to use the stwak at the end of the day; rather, it is sunna just
like it is at the beginning of the day, even if the siwak is moist or wet with water.
The Prophet would use the siwak at the beginning of the day and at the end while
fasting.' And the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[The
siwak is sunna, so perform siwak any time you wish].° Imam Shafi'i on the other
hand said that it is disliked in the evening as it does away with the blessed effects,
which is the smell of the mouth which resembles the blood of the martyr.°


" Bukhari ١٩٢٧, Muslim ١١٠٦.

* Al-Hidayah ٣١٩.

* Ibn Majah ١٦٧٨.

* Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi, Al-Zayla'i, vol ٢, ٤٦٠.

" Mentioned by Imam Suyuty in Jami as-Saga'ir ٢/٥٥٠.
° Al-Hidayah.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٥٥


a pall fe oo fre Sh tal ye SLEW yc pty pal GLE Vy dawually


Rinsing the mouth or nostrils for other than wudu is not disliked and neither is
taking a bath, or dressing in wet cloths to cool down; and the fatwa issued is in
accordance with this view. These practices are not disliked according to Abu
Yusuf, whilst Abu Hanifa held that they are disliked. However, it is the view of
Abu Yusuf which is more widely held on the matter because Abu Dawud
transmitted that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))poured water
upon his head while fasting due to thirst or heat." And Ibn Umar would wet his
clothes and wrap himself in them while fasting.'


That Which Is Recommended When Fasting


lew J mr,


There are three things that are recommended for the one observing fast
gi


١- The pre-dawn meal(sahur)is recommended; The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[Observe sahur, for verily there is blessing in the sahur].'


oly


٢- To delay the pre-dawn meal to shortly before dawn is recommended. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Three things are from the
qualities of the Messengers: To break the fast immediately(upon sunset), to delay
sahur and to place the right hand over the left hand in prayer]. Note; there are
some people who do not observe the pre-dawn meal, or who observe it too early.
According to moderation, this is not endorsed. The Prophet and his Companions
observed the predawn meal to acquire strength for fasting the day and would
delay the pre-dawn meal to the extent that the time between observing the meal
and dawn was equal to the time one could recite fifty verses.'


ree ٣ pall fey


٣- To be haste in breaking the fast on a day where there is no obstruction or
clouds in the sky is recommended in accordance with the above hadith.


" Abu Dawud ٢٣٥٩.

* Mentioned by Bukhari.

٣ Bukhari ١٩٢٣.

' Al-Haythami ٢/١٠٥, T"abarani, Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٩.
° Bukhari ٥٧٥.


٣٥٦ BOOK IV: FASTING


v٢ byl ٣ eat


Fortuitous Circumstances
The Ill, The Pregnant And The Breast-Feeding.


The circumstances which are deemed legal and for which no sin is awarded for
the breaking of fast are eight: illness, travel, coercion, pregnancy, breast-feeding,
hunger, thirst and old age. In each of the cases, one is permitted to break or leave
the days of fasting at hand and make up the days later when one is able. For
example: an old and frail man who suffers from an illness is allowed to leave the
fast and pay a fee(fidya). If this person regains strength for fasting, he must make
up the days that he missed. Similarly, Ramadan may be missed in the following
scenarios.


epWeda gl ٢ Moab)GL oJ dealt


It is permissible to break one's fast, for one who is ill and fears(with good reason)aggravation in his illness or a delay in his recovery.


Lolo, gh OS Li Lady gh nti fe ٢ dl gh SAM gf fant Olas CIE pa sy LL,


A pregnant or nursing woman is permitted to leave the fast if she fears a loss of
mind, death, or illness upon herself or child(regardless if the child is her own or a
child she nurses). If the fear is present, she is to delay the fast to a later date. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Allah has remitted half the
prayer to a traveller, and fasting to the traveller, the woman who is suckling an
infant and the woman who is pregnant}."


Se GaL> les Cenk shod sl & pee aI Ada)Les O١٥ Le eal GIy


The fear which is considered genuine allowing one to break his/her fast is that
which is based upon one's predominant belief through past experience or on the
information from an Islamic physician who is skilful and upright.


SWUM ar GE Eye shat the J far oly


It is permitted to break the fast if one suffers unbearable thirst or hunger in which
he fears his demise or that he may lose his mind or senses.


" Abu Dawud ٢٤٠٢.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٥٧


ial
The Traveller
Of RAEN GS Re Vy opp plas acltdy Ue SG ge pay dol mT anpo ys ball SLU,
dela Aas)ys oped Las YE +p dade gl nS Are | pls


The traveller is legally permitted to break his fast. However, to fast is better
provided it will not harm him and provided that most of his companions
accompanying him are also fasting and that each person is funding his own
expenses separately, though if they are sharing the expenses of the travel or are
not fasting, then it is better to break the fast and be in accordance with the group.
In any case, the traveller is permitted to break his fast opting instead to make up
the day at a more convenient time. Allah says[If anyone is ill or on a journey, the
prescribed number should be made up from later days]."


ade HS Ylry« phil ١٥)pydall be CEL
What Is And Is Not Required Of A Person Who Breaks Fast Due To An Excuse
PAG[So yrs pir y ٢ pero nde Sly)PSL oy fe Lawl V,


If a person dies before his excuse ends such as illness and travel, he is not
required to make a will instructing his heirs, to redeem the days he lost. The
reason is due to his excuse which remains. For example, a sick person who dies
before regaining sound health is under no obligation to make a will for the days


he lost because his excuse remains. Note; a missed fast is redeemed by paying the
fidya(fee).(iS pe)HUY Ad CLs aged lps J Ooty)Slaad Lely pad Ll pad(GIS ٣١ ٠!)(٢ hl ee)dona
And if one finds other days in which he can make up the missed days, then he
must do so(when he regains sound health or after becoming a resident). If
however, he does not make up the days, then he is required to leave a will
instructing his heirs to redeem the days he was healthy for or the days he was a
resident for(that is, the days he was able to make up but did not). Consider the
following: Person 'X' fell ill for ١٥ days of Ramadan. Thereafter, he recovered for
ten days and then died. Prior to death, this person must make a will instructing
his family to make up only ten days of fasting for him because he was only fit and
able for ten days and they are the days that he is responsible for. The other five
days are not required because, a)he did not find other days in which he could
make up the lost ones; and b)because he had only recovered for ten days. Hence,
one is responsible for the days he had the ability to fast but did not. In the event





" Quran ٢:١٨٤.


٣٥٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


that one dies and was not in an able position to make up days, then he is not
responsible. Note: If the deceased left no instructions for the fidya(fee)to be
taken from a third of his estate, then it is not necessary that the fidya be given on
his behalf. If however, someone wishes to volunteer, then it is accepted. The fidya
is half a measure[sa']of wheat, or its value for each day of fasting.


sLadl J gil b pa Vs


It is not a stipulation to make up the fasts of Ramadan successively, i.e. one day
straight after the other, joining all the days together. However, it is permitted to
do so. It is also permitted to make up the missed fasts intermittently from time to
time. In saying this, it is recommended that the fasts be made up successively and
not be delayed more than they have to; in order to make haste in pious actions,


Note: the types of fasting are eleven. Eight are mentioned in the Quran, four of
which are to be done successively and four which are permitted to be done
intermittently; and then there are three types which are established through the
sunna. As for the four that are to be performed successively, they are: ١)the
performance of the current Ramadan at hand as Allah said[Whoever witnesses
the month is to fast}." ٢)For the expiation of dhihar as Allah said[Anyone who
cannot find the means must fast for two consecutive months].' ٣)Killing someone
accidentally as Allah said[Anyone who cannot find the means is to fast for two
consecutive months].' ٤)For an oath as Allah says[Anyone without the means to
do so should fast three days. That is the expiation for breaking oaths when you
have sworn them].' Indeed, it is stipulated that such fasts be done successively.


As for the types that are permitted intermittently, they include: ١)the make-up[gada]of Ramadan as Allah says[But if any of you are ill or on a journey, should
fast a number of other days].° ٢)The fidya of shaving for the muhrim as Allah says{If any of you are ill or have a head injury, the expiation is fasting, or sadaqa, or
sacrifice].° ٣)The fidya for ¢amattu' as Allah says:[Anyone who comes out of ihram
between umrah and hajj should make whatever sacrifice is feasible. For anyone
who cannot, there are three days fast on hajj and seven on your return, that is ten
in all].' ٤)The recompense for hunting in the state of ihram as Allah says[.or
expiation by feeding the poor or fasting proportionate to that, so that he may taste
the evil consequences of what he did].°


" Quran ٢:١٨٥.
: Quran ٥٨:٤.
* Quran ٤:٩٢.
* Quran ٥:٨٩.
: Quran ٢:١٨٤.
z Quran ٢:١٩٦.
" Quran ٢:١٩٦.
* Quran ٥:٩٥.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٥٩


As for the three types established through the sunna and in which one has an
option of performing intermittently, are as follows: ١)the expiation fasting[kaffarah)for intentionally breaking one's fast in Ramadan. ٢)Optional fasting and
٣)the vowed fast, ie. one promised to perform a particular day. The same is
maintained in Bada-i'asSana-i'as well in Tuhfatul Fugaha."


aN All ٤٥ Vy ela! fe ead +١ oLaey ole of


If another Ramadan comes along, yet one has not fasted the previous Ramadan,
then one is to perform the current one and thereafter make up the unperformed
Ramadan. And there is no fidya(penalty fee)for delaying these missed fasts up to
the current Ramadan. Although, according to the Shafi'i Madhhab, there is.


pl lcm
The Elderly
٢ ot Clee eal gp IS al lege hi y GU ٥ pee y OU eS phaall ٥ ٩s
It is permitted for a frail old person(male and female)to break their fast. They
must however pay the fidya for every day missed. The fidya(or fee)is half a
measure of wheat(which equals ١.٦ kg), or the equivalent in cash. Note: the frail old


person is called the shatkh fani in Arabic for the reason that he is close to death.
And the ajuz faniah is in reference to an elderly female.


enad L ٦ pe yi ps
One Who Vowed To Fast His Entire Life And Weakened As A Result
Mil pai G pS Ql fe tis ١ OP Gadey gad - Eth SLY - ce aad A peo pd eS
shi y Gl


If a person vowed to fast his entire life and as a result becomes weak and feeble
because of his working efforts to provide for himself and family, then he is to
break his fast and pay the fidya. If however, he is unable to pay the fidya due to
financial difficulty, then he is to seek forgiveness from Allah and rescind his vow;(ie. one is to seek pardon for his shortcoming).


" Bada-i asSana-i" ٢/٢١٠ |Tuhfatul Fuqaha ٢/٣٤١[Maraky al-Falah ٣٩٢].


٣٦٠ Book IV: FASTING
sal Yo


When The Payment Of The Fidya(Penalty Fee)Is Not Valid


As there is expiation to atone for violations of fasting, there also exists expiation
for other violations. Such expiations become imposed for issues like breaking
one's oath and murder. The expiation(kaffarah)of a broken oath is, ١)to free a
sound Muslim slave, ٢)to feed ten poor people, ٣)to provide clothing for ten such
persons. If one is unable to do any of the above, one must fast for three days.


٥٩٦ VSG jhe gm peed gf OU at py He ee ADL EB JS I es dW de Cary Sy
ok ot Jay bap pall OY Kull


If the expiation of a broken oath or murder is required of a person, and he does
not have the financial means to carry out the expiation of freeing a slave or to
feed or clothe unfortunate persons, then he is required to fast. Though if this person
is old and feeble and therefore unable to fast or he does not fast when he has the
ability to do so until he becomes old and enfeebled, then in both cases, it is not
permitted to pay the fidya. The same applies to the expiation[kaffarah]of fasting.
In addition, one cannot undertake the atonement of fasting unless he is unable to
expiate with payment.
٠p)rd phil ¢ shell lal ٥ yt
The Permissibility Of Breaking Voluntary Fast With Or Without A Reason
٤ly)٣ rhe A pall ¢ phere ٥٩٤٥
It is permitted for a person who is performing a voluntary fast to break it with no
reason, according to the opinion of Abu Yusuf. A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))said: The Apostle of Allah((God bless him and give him peace))came to me
one day and said[Is there anything with you(to eat)?]I said, "No." Thereupon, he
said[I shall then be fasting]. Then he came another day and we said, "Messenger
of Allah, hays(a type of food)has been offered to us as a gift." Thereupon he said
"Show that to me." He then said, "I had been fasting since morning," then he ate.'


It is vital to point out, that if one breaks a voluntary fast, it becomes necessary to
make it up as an act of devotion.


LIE BULA oi Syed aS y anally era ٤b Jo pic Lally


Entertaining is regarded as a reason(for breaking a voluntary fast)according to
the most evident view, for both the guest and the host, and for them is the glad
tidings of this great benefit in that the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[Whomever breaks his fast for the right of his brother, the rewards of


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٩٣.
* Muslim ١١٥٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٦١


fasting a thousand days are written for him and upon making up the day, the
rewards of(another)thousand days of fasting are added to(his)account)]. This
hadith has been specifically indicated to by the author of Nur al-Idah. This means
a guest may break his voluntary fast to entertain his host, and the host may break
his voluntary fast to entertain his guest. And Allah knows best.


٤٢ pe Wi Se A old y cpecteall ges pl ae fle glace ٦ ٢ ١٣]Y]Lait ate Sie sl fo bil bit,


If a person breaks a voluntary fast in any situation(whether there is a reason or
not), he is required to make up the day, except if he begins to fast during one of
the five following days, they being the two days of Eid and the days of Tashriq,
for verily there is no requirement to make up the days if one breaks his fast
during these days(as we have been prevented from fasting on these days)and this
is the most evident view on the matter as held by Abu Hanifa, for it is not
permitted to complete the fast upon these days, on the basis that he has engaged
in something prohibited. Thus, he is ordered to break his fast and attend to
entertaining his guest during these days of celebration and Allah knows best.


LA poy LaSly ¢ pall gies cow eli gle pl Lb OL


Fulfilling One's Promise Such As Fasting, Prayers and Other.
JAIL obi Se ho


When Is One Required To Fulfil His Promise


If a person vows to perform good deeds, then he must fulfil what he promised,
provided three conditions are met. Allah Almighty said((let them fulfil their
vows))," and the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whomever
vowed to obey Allah, then he should obey Allah and whomever vowed to disobey
Allah, should not disobey Him].'


aly ee op OK OI


١-The act(one promises)is to be from a category which is wayib, such as fasting,
prayer, and hajj. This means that a person can make a vow to observe fast and
prayer since prayer and fasting(in essence)originate from a wajib category.


I> pated Sol,


" Hajj ٢٩.
٢ Bukhari ٦٦٩٦.


٣٦٢ Book IV: FASTING


٢-The primary actual act itself must be specifically intended by the person, not the
pre-requisite of the act; for example, one cannot promise to make wudu because it
is the pre-requisite to prayer. And wudu is not the primary thing that is intended,
but we do so in order to pray. Hence, one cannot intend a thing that is linked to
the act; rather, he must intend the act. It is the primary act itself which one must
vow, such as prayer, fasting, charity etc.


bly pd OS Ol ٥


٣- The act that one promises must not already be required of a person, for
example, one cannot promise to pray the noon prayer(dhuhr)because it is
already compulsory to perform. Hence, one cannot promise to perform an act that
he must already perform, but rather it is an additional act.


٠ rdy + yd ole SL


One is therefore not required to perform wudu if he promises to do so because it
is not the primary act; rather, it is the precondition for prayer and other acts of
worship.


sy sume Vy


Likewise, a person is not required to perform the recital prostration if he vows to
do so because it is already necessary to respond to the prostration verse if one
hears or recites it.


as Maole Ys


One is not required to visit the ill if he promises to do so(because it does not
originate from a wajib category as mentioned in point ١ above. Though Abu
Hanifa disagreed saying; that If one intends to visit his ill brother today, then his
vow is valid and if one promised to visit his friend, he is not required to fulfil this,
because the visiting of the ill is a worship and he mentioned the saying of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[The one who visits the sick is as
though he is in the fruit garden of paradise until he returns]."


Promising to do acts of worship which are already required is not valid because
they are already imposed on the person by law.


SAL pray


One's vow is valid if he promises to free a slave for the reason that it is
compulsory to do so in the event of kaffarah(expiation)where one is required to
free a slave.


NSE,


" Muslim ٢٥٦٨.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٦:


If a person vows to perform religious retreat(I'tikaf)then the vow is valid in tha!


one may perform it as a promised act since it originates from a wajib category.
pyally doy All pe Lally


Vowing to perform a voluntary prayer or fast is valid and after one has promised
them, they become necessary to perform, and equally sadaqah(charity)is alsc
included in this category.


dy cli gS a٢ ٥! days bt Liles of Liles ١٠ ٥b Of


If a person vows a general(unspecified)promise, such as saying, "I swear by Allah
that upon me is a two rak'ah prayer," then he is required to fulfil this vow. If on
the other hand one attaches a condition to a promise, such as, "If Allah grants me
a child, I shall feed ten people," then he is also required to fulfil the vow if the
condition or event occurs such as a child. Hence, vowing to fast an unspecified
day or a vow that is subject to a condition are necessary to fulfil.


A ٦ pe si op pS>
The Ruling Of One Who Vowed To Fast The Two Days Of Eid


Loolady be hd ty LANG He ll Olly pti p pe ti ney


Promising to fast both the days of Eid as well as the days of Tashrigq is valid, and
this is the opted view on the matter, though it is necessary to break the fast during
these days mentioned and make up the days later, as Abu Hurairah reported that
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))prohibited fasting two days,
Eid al-Fitr and Eid al-Adha."
٤٤ pall & ol jal qeluo ols
If however one keeps fast on these days(of Eid and Tashriq due to their vow)it is
valid, though it is unlawful.
oshsel nt bey idl J slael YL


That Which Is Disregarded In A Vow And That Which Is Binding
shally pr ly Oy OLS Ges Ltt


Factors that are not binding(and disregarded)as being part of a vow are the
specification of the time, place, as well as the specification of dirhams or a specific
poor person. For example, if one vows to donate a particular dirham or to feed a
particular poor person, one is not obliged to donate that particular dirham or feed
that particular poor person since these specifications in a promise are not binding,
though the act itself must still be carried out. The rationale being that it is the
pious action that brings one closer to Allah which is the aim, it is not the time,
place or person, and for this reason, the time, place or person are disregarded in
the vow.


" Muslim ١١٣٧.


٣٦٤ BOOK IV: FASTING


Olas ٦ ٢ ol oe rrp ooh pad


If one promises to fast the month of Sha'ban and instead fasts the month of
Rajab, it is valid for the reason that the promise to fast is the objective. The actual
month is not required to have arrived, and because one did not wait for the
month to arrive, he has benefited in the rewards, which may have been missed in
the event of death or other reasons.


Say Pola]ji pans yea Se ٨ ٥٢٥


If a person promises to perform two rak'ahs in Makkah and instead prays them in
another city, it is valid and permitted, because the pious act is achieved, not the
place where it was carried out.


٤)ne Ad OF eA ys GLaarlly


Promising to give sadaqah with a specific dirham, but instead donating a different
dirham is valid due to the pious act, and because specifying a particular dirham or
money is not considered as being part of the vow.


gp ody pial ٥)٣ nally


If a person promises to feed or assist a poor person named Umar and instead
opted with Zaid, the vow and pious act is valid, because the meaning of a pious
act involving sadaqah is to satisfy the need of the poor; and this is the intended
meaning without considering the time, place or person. However, this is contrary
to Imam Zufar who said, "One should specify these factors."


٤b poppy[dbase Se Vb)tl Ge oly


If one makes his vow conditional, such as saying, "I swear by Allah if I regain
sound health, I will give sadaqah," which means the promise of giving sadaqah is
based upon a condition, then its performance before the arrival of the condition
does not suffice, since the vow is linked with the condition.


BOoK IV: FASTING ٣٦٥
Ke Vib


Itikaf « Religi fous Retreat »»>"


SISSY Ve ps


The Definition Of I"'tika


tbl ol Lal adh del dl a plig tos j(Ie Wy gl)ey UGY! ya ae as


Its definition is to remain with the intention(of seclusion)in a masjid where the
five daily prayers are performed in congregation. Ali and Hudhayfa((God be
pleased with them))said[There is no religious retreat(I"tikaf)except in a
congregational mosque].'


Des fo ol gal deltas pls Ye G ene i


It is not valid in a masjid where the five daily prayers are not performed in
congregation, and this is the opted opinion on the matter.


٤b Ta as Je yay ey dee G KE AT AU,


I"tikaf for a female is the masjid of her home, which is a place she has designated
for prayer in her home(the place where she customarily performs her prayers).


" Linguistically, I'tikaf means to seclude oneself and remain; such as to say, "This person
'akafa upon the Quran;" meaning that he remained in the state of reciting Quran. And
I'tikaf has been a practice in the masjids from the laws prior to Islam, though Islam
affirmed and established it. And the proof that /"tikaf was practiced in the laws before
Islam is the statement of Allah in the Quran "We covenanted with Abraham and Ismail
that they should sanctify My house for those who compass it round or use it as a retreat, or
bow or prostrate themselves[therein in prayer]."(Al-Baqarah ١٢٥). And another proof that
Islam sanctioned /"tikaf is the establishment of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))whom would retreat the last ten days of Ramadan, until he died and it has been
established that the wives of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))observed
Ptikaf after him.

* Tabarani ٩/٣٠٢. The hadith is deemed mawgu/.


٣٦٦ BOooK IV: FASTING


ASE gl yl
The Types Of I"tikaf
plist BH fe GeV;
There are three types of I'tikaf;
٢٩٥M Seely


١- Necessary type(wajtb)- this type of J'tikaf is that which one vows to do; such as
promising, "I swear by Allah, I shall observe /'tikaf" or "If Allah cures the illness
of such and such, I shall observe I'tikaf." Fasting is conditional when observing
this type of /'tikaf To spend less than one day in this type of /"ttkaf is not
permitted.


Shae, cpp pM tall G٨٥ ye US ty


٢- The second is sunna mu'akkada(an emphasized sunna)in the last ten days of
Ramadan. This type of /'tikaf is sunna kifaya, meaning that it is a communal


sunna.
ol gw Ww wwe ٩


٣- The third type is that which is recommended any other time of the year apart
from the above two types.


Fasting is a condition only for the vowed J"ttkaf,(which is the wajib type


mentioned above, not the voluntary type). Note, there is no vowed I"tikaf unless one
orally expresses it, because it is linked with the tongue, though this is not the case
with the intention because the place for that is the heart. The Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))said[There is no I'tikaf without a fast]." This means that
fasting is conditional for the wajtb form of I'tikaf on the basis of unanimous
narration.


ay gall fo Lbs IS hyo ٣ pe Bae AS ally


The shortest period for the recommended /"tikaf is any duration of time according
to Imam Muhammad. This is established by remaining for a moment with the
intention of J'itkaf even if one does this while walking through the masjid, and the
fawa given is in accordance with this view. Though according to Abu Hanifa, the
stortest period for making /"tikaf is one day. According to Imam Abu Yusuf, it is
the greater part of the day.


" Darqutani and al-Baihagi.


BOooK IV: FASTING ٣٦٧


When Is It Permissible To Exit The Masjid In I'tikaf?[WS ch eh y dre play yy no MIS dnb Pit de ied Ware EV,
alal ٣ ٥ ٩< aS


A person in I"tikaf is not to leave the masjid except for a legal need such as the
Friday prayer or to answer the call of nature, such as urinating, or because of
necessity, such as the collapse of the masjid. In addition, one may leave if he is
coerced by an oppressor or because his family members have been separated and


he is required to attend to them.
Ab Le oye ٠ pb Nee fod op plKU packs shai ley,


If one fears for himself or his goods from a rebel, then he is permitted to leave
and enter another masjid immediately after leaving the first one; and one must not
engage in anything except in the travel to the other masjid.


٠b & ply rls And pe WH dele & > Of


If one exits the masjid for any duration of time without a valid reason, the wajib
form of I"tikaf becomes invalid and other types of J'tékaf such as the voluntary type


is deemed over(that is, it has come to an end due to leaving the masjid).
dread J She sina)be U pat odie y an gigas ty Kall ISI,


The person performing I"tikaf is permitted to eat, drink, sleep and to form a
contract for the purpose of trade for himself or family, a contract which he or his
family are in need of; this is to be performed only within the masjid. This is owing
to the fact that if one leaves the masjid for this reason it would spoil the retreat. It
is therefore permitted with dislike.


Al-Hidayah states that eating, drinking and sleeping are to take place at the
location of the /'tikaf. The basis for this is that there was no place of abode for the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))except the masjid. Further, it is
possible to meet these needs in the masjid, and there is no necessity of coming out
for them.!


" Al-Hidayah ٣٤٣.


٣٦٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


dls Seal oS OL
That Which Is Disliked In Religious Retreat(I'tikaf)٤٣ poll jLam]oS;
It is disliked to bring items of trade to the magid for the purpose of trade, for one


should not turn the masjid into a marketplace.
BL olS Le sae oS


It is disliked to form a contract for the purposes of trade even though it is
permitted, as one has devoted himself to Allah and should not engage in the
matters of the world.(psu VI ASI y)& ٥ ottiel O}canal ٠٥"s


It is disliked to maintain complete silence if one believes it is an act that will bring
him closer to Allah, though if a person is silent because he has nothing to say, it is
not disliked. Muslims are prevented from remaining silent as an act of worship for
the reason that it was, and is the observance of the Christians and the Jews. Abu
Hurairah narrated from the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))that
the Prophet prohibited continuous fast and the silent fast]." If one observes silence
without believing it to be a pious act, but rather held his tongue from speaking
things of no benefit, then there is no harm. In addition, it is commendable to
recite Quran, to remember Allah through invocations, hadith, knowledge,
learning and the biography of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)),
or the biographies of the heroes of Islam and the books of religion. One is to
engage in beneficial discussion and learning.


GIKe VI flay ley iKiall Je pt L
What Is Unlawful In I'tikaf And Its Nullification
aclyry eb gle my


It is forbidden to indulge in sexual intercourse or to kiss and fondle. Allah said[Do not associate with your wives while you are in retreat in the masjid].'


aclyt Sky ao y fas


I'tikaf is nullified if one indulges in sexual intercourse or has an orgasm as a result
of kissing and fondling, and it does not matter if one indulges in these actions on
purpose or forgetfully, or whether he was keen to comply or under duress or
whether it was in the day or night. If an orgasm results, the retreat is nullified.


" Abu Hanifa's Musnad ١/١٩٢.
? Al-Bagarah ١٨٧.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٦٩
bel iiSiel iy Ladd SLU ce ٣s


If a person vows to observe Itikaf for a certain number of days, then he must
observe /tikaf during the nights of those days as well.


Ny SN pats lS b ty dol y «dkms SLU! pits pL ace gy


A person who vows I'tikaf for a certain number of nights must also observe the
days consecutively even if a consecutive order is not stipulated when vowing. And
this is the most evident view on the matter. The basis for this is that /'tikafis built
upon a consecutive order in that it continues through the night and day, though
this is contrary to a fast which is built upon separation in that the nights are not
acceptable for the fast. Thus, fasts are obligatory with separation even if the person
expressly stipulates a consecutive order.'


omy ye OL aa J


A person who vaes two days in retreat must also remain for two nights. The reason
that the nights become binding with the days is because this person intended a
dual form which is a combination of both day and night in meaning. One is
therefore bound by the ruling as a precaution. One must therefore enter the
masjid a little time before the sun sets on the basis that the night precedes the day
and remain for two nights and two days.'


SW ٠,٩ dole jelis wey


If a person forms an intention specifically for the days without the nights, it is
valid because it is directed towards the actual object.'


len VL ¢ pay bY)cs fad Y dole SUI shoe ell sty pt ١G i al,


If one vows I'tikaf for a month(whether it is specified or not)and he intends the
days only or intends the nights only, then this intention cannot come into effect
unless he expresses what he wishes to rule out and exclude in his intention, such as
the saying, "One month in the day excluding the nights."


" Maraky al-Falah ٤٠٤.
: Maraky al-Falah ٤٠٤.
٣ Maraky al-Falah ٤٠٤.


٣٧٠ BOOK IV: FASTING


aaaSm y ad jrny DIKE ancy pte


The Legality Of I'tikaf, Its Status And Wisdom


Sly GUL £٩ A IRE;


Religious retreat[I'tikaf| is legal and permissible through Quranic text and the
Prophet's sunna. Allah states in the Quran[Do not associate with your wives
while you are in I'tikaf(retreat)in the masjid]." As for the sunna, A'ishah narrated
that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would perform['tikaf in
the last ten days of Ramadan when he arrived at Madina until Allah took his
soul].? Imam al-Zuhri said; "J am amazed at the people in how they left I'tikaf, whilst the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would perform this action. They leave it whilst
the Prophet did not, until he passed."


OH! Ge ONS ١٣)SEI td ops gay
Religious retreat is from the most honourable of actions, provided it is performed
with sincerity to Allah, for the reason that this person in /'ttkaf is waiting for the
group prayer in the masjid and is therefore like one who is constantly engaged in
prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The slave(of
Allah)does not cease prayer so long as he is in the masjid waiting for the prayer].°


SN Sf atl ala y Ly yal pe Ca by i ad OF cake ye


From the benefits and merits of /'tikaf is the heart being separated from the
matters of this world while submitting to the Master and Owner of all that exists.


aay J Oole jes


Another merit is a person's remaining in actions of worship in the house of Allah
as in accordance with the hadith of the Prophet((God bless him and give peace))who said that Allah said[I am to my servant as he expects of Me. I am with him
when he remembers Me. If he remembers Me in his heart, I remember him in
Myself. And if he remembers Me in an assembly, | mention him in an assembly
better than his. And if he draws nearer to Me a hand- span, I draw nearer to him
an arm's length. And if he draws nearer to Me an arm's length, I draw nearer to
him a fathoms length and if he comes to Me walking, I rush to him at great
speed]."


" Al-Bagarah ١٨٧.

? Bukhari ٢٠٢٦, Muslim ١١٧١.

? Bukhari, the Book of Wudu; Maraky al-Falah ٤٠٥.
* Bukhari.


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٧١


nary Cparlly
In addition to the benefits is; one is fortified(safeguarded)with His strong hold.
> CHV: Sp ARAL UL las SL fe Cake Joy fee ASEall foe: dil am, oles Jliy
pos S٥٥٩ Sde m t Ay > ٣ te


'Ata ibn Abi Rabah stated the following: the example of a person in I"tikaf is like
the person who stands and waits on a great door(of a king, great minister or an
imam)because of a need he has. Equally, the person in /'tkaf utters, "J will not
leave and depart from the 'door' of my Maker until He has forgiven me my sins, which are the
reasons for the distance between me and Him and the descending of calamities upon me." 'Ata
ibn Abi Rabah was a tabi', a student of Ibn Abbas((God be pleased with him))and one of the teachers of Imam Abu Hanifa. Abu Hanifa said of him[I did not
see anyone greater in jurisprudence than Hammad and that there was no one
whom had gathered the entirety of knowledge more than 'Ata Ibn Abi Rabah].
Most of the narrations of Abu Hanifa were from 'Ata whom heard it from Ibn
Abbas and Ibn Umar, Abu Hurairah, Abu Sa'id, Jabir and A'ishah. He died in
١١٥ Hijrah and he was eighty years of age].


Abn spilt Let LY yoy Gee fe ail fro y abl Glue OLY)arg LS Ley Lhd Ulae gill ab tatty
Ny ep SU agen gl Ladle abet ol phe gis caidas ail UL y ٠ Wy cy rydy erry al ley shal


pet Ns S٥٨٩ peal gill ٤ ay


٣٧٣


call Caw
Clay! ٥ ٩٣ ALS
deal! uc Cyall gine tere


The following « Hibatul Fattah »» is a completion of the book Nur
al-Idah by Muhammad Muhyi al-Din Abdul Hamid


٣٧٤


ue


ees


The Chapter
of Lakat


Paeennisteas aany


Nae Nea a aa ad


٣٧٦ BOOK V: ZAKAT


Book V: The Chapter Of Zakat

CONTENTS:

The Chapter Of Zakat ٣٧٧
The Meaning Of Zakat ٣٧٧
Its Ruling And Upon Whom Is It Obligatory ٣٧٧
Conditions That Obligate Its Payment ٣٧٨
Conditions That Validate Its Performance ٣٧٨
Types Of Wealth On Which Zakat Is To Be Paid ٣٧٩
The Nisab(Minimum Amount)Of Gold and Silver ٣٨٠
Conditions That Make Zakat Obligatory On Livestock ٣٨٢
Zakat Upon Camels ٣٨٢
Zakat Upon Livestock ٣٨٤
Zakat Upon Sheep ٣٨٥
Zakat Upon Horses ٣٨٥
Zakat Upon Merchandise Of Trade ٣٨٧
Zakat Upon Crops And Fruit ٣٨٧
Treasure Troves ٣٨٩
Recipients Of Zakat ٣٨٩
That Which Zakat Is Not Permitted For ٣٨٢

Sadagah Al-Fity ٣٩٢
Conditions That Render Sadaqah Al-Fitr Wajib ٣٩٢
The Guardian Is Required To Pay The Sadaqah On Behalf Of. ٣٩٣
When Is It Necessary To Pay ٣٩٣
The Types Of Things That May Be Used To Pay. ٣٩٤
The Required Amount ٣٩٤
Recipients Of Sadaqah AI-Fitr ٣٩٥


Transferring Sadaqah Al-Fitr And Zakat To Another City ٣٩٦


BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٧٧
als JI OLS


The Chapter Of Zakat
lS J ae
The Meaning Of Zakat
"netae he aad als ٥S lbs
Literally, zakat has two meanings,
Chee tS ٥.٩ A poled Gato ol gal ope dt): Sls yi aay cdl gall Ase l
١- The first is purity, such as the saying of Allah[Take from their wealth so that
you might purify and sanctify therm]."
NG ٩ ee ٦ Fy WIS ٥: WS ae y cole gtr I led y


٢- The second meaning is extra and growth, such as when a person says(the
plants have grown)intending the meaning, that they have increased.


OY ye Vy tle nb ple ab oe Le pe yee JU ose go SLE fe Sey ٢g SIS I pls


Zakat according to the Sacred Law is; the ownership of a certain amount of
wealth that has been prescribed by the law for a poor Muslim who is not a
Hashimy and neither a slave of a Hashimy. Note; ownership(or possession)means exclusive control over it and the right to undertake transactions with it.


the po Ee Olen y gn S>
Its Ruling And Upon Whom Is It Obligatory
aby ٠ Sy aly > BS Obs ele O٩٨ OES boy LR AS Cece oy JS Le ٢p aS Ny
WL ٩S oly
Zakat is obligatory on a person who satisfies five conditions;


١- One must be a Muslim. Zakat is not compulsory on the wealth owned by an
unbeliever living in a Muslim country; rather they will pay jizya - a protection tax.
The reason Islam is conditional is because zakat is an act of worship and such
worship cannot be brought about by an unbeliever.


٢- The person must be free, not a slave. The reason freedom is stipulated is
because perfect ownership can only arise through it.


٣- Maturity is conditional for the reason that it is not imposed upon a minor.


" Quran ٩:١٠٣.


٣٧٨ BOoK V: ZAKAT


٤- Sanity is conditional for the reason that zakat is not necessary on the wealth
possessed by children who have not yet gained intellect or those mentally
unsound according to Imam Abu Hanifa. However, Imam Malik, Shafi'i and
Ahmad hold that it is compulsory to be paid either by their parents or guardians.


Bye ٥٩٦ cp ed aslo slash ou gh sl = Sal IIL oS aly


٥- One must be in possession of a nisab(minimum amount)from things of a
productive nature of which a profit is derived, such as grazing cattle, crops, gold,
silver or merchandise for business. The nisab is a sum of wealth large enough to
require the owner to pay zakat on it. In addition, there is no zakat on effects that
are not of a productive nature, even if these things are in excess of one's needs,


such as cars, utensils, food, clothing, shelter, or furniture etc., if such items are not
for trade.


Lactol ~ c ٢ ٣ b ٣ ry
Conditions That Obligate Its Payment


eV clas! dh fe ddI St ob: sb oy Sl ban


The condition that obligates one to pay zakat is; the possession of the original
nisab(minimum amount)for a complete year. Meaning, one must own the


minimum amount and a year must pass over such ownership. Accordingly, the
obligation immediately arises on the passage of a year.


laclol ine by
Conditions That Validate Its Performance
cpt tebe orl gil laall je de Ly «ata Ustad soe Ld: al SIS Bl og gy Ol: ipl ened bites
BS ٥ deh L ob aS I ist ade bat Vgc Sb


In order for the act of offering the zakat to be valid, the one paying the zakat is
required to intend zakat, and he may do this when paying the zakat to the poor or
at the time when he is separating the required amount from the rest of his wealth.
This is essential to the proper performance of the act of giving zakat. To offer
zakat without an intention coinciding with the payment or with the setting-aside


of the obligatory portion is not valid. It is not a stipulation for the poor person
receiving the zakat to know that he is receiving zakat.


BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٧٩
als Silas EL
The T; Wealth On Which Zakat Must Be Paid
٢ linda Gals Od
There are five types of wealth on which zakat is compulsory;
Lady all yey sell: Jy


١- The first is gold and silver whether it is in the form of bullion, jewellery, cash or
bank notes. The value of these is to be equal to the amount discussed ahead.


Mise cyl ce fd y WUE ally athy PIN gas oily dt: GUL,


٢- The second is livestock and they are camels, cows and sheep(which is agreed
upon in the Madhhab). According to Abu Hanifa zakat is required upon horses.


Note; livestock refers to cattle that graze on pastures.
cipal ٤٥ ٦: OU,
٣- The third is merchandise of trade once it equals the value of the nisab.
ASS gaol oe SWE: ely


٤- The fourth is on that which the earth produces from crops and plantations of
fruit(food crops).
tS SN ' ow lel ٣


٥- The fifth is treasure troves(minerals, gas, coal etc.).


٣٨٠ Book V: ZAKAT





leelS٣y gpa ola


The Nisab(Minimum Amount)On Gold And Silver
Wie oy Re td fb IBY ge gile Ladll jogs Wie op te A op ale > sat deg Vu
lie Lanai oy all ry td ry


The nisab is the portion of wealth(minimum amount)a person owns that requires
him to pay zakat. If a person possesses this nisab(minimum amount)for a
complete lunar year, the poor now owns this portion and the owner is obliged to
pay zakat.


Zakat is not due on gold until it reaches twenty mithgols(the approximate weight
being ٨٧ grams)." And with respect to silver, there is no zakat due on it until there
is ٢٠٠ dirhams(the approximate weight being ٧٠٠ grams). This is the nisab(minimum amount)which is required before zakat becomes due. When the gold
reaches twenty mithqols(or ٨٧ grams), it is necessary to pay ٢.٥ % on it — which is
half a mithqol. Note: if a person owns currency that equals this value, then one must pay
zakat on it.


ulate ٢ op tal fo ng Joe deal IS es


Then, for every four mithgols(in excess of the twenty mithgols), one is to pay one
tenth of a mithgol(or the equivalent value).' This means that when there is twenty mithgols
of gold(or ٨٧ grams; or one possesses currency that equals the value of this amount), ٢.٥% is
required. The additional amount that is over and above the twenty mithgols incurs no fee until
it reaches four mithgols(or ١٧.٤ grams). When it does reach four mithgols(one tenth of a
mithgol or its value is due).


Se a٥ ٥٢ Swart IS bo pala dee gay poll ey led ry pane ole Lal CAL ١٣)bdaly pa yo sl


When the silver reaches ٢٠٠ dirhams, it is necessary to pay ٢.٥% on it, which is
five dirhams. Then, for every forty dirhams(after the initial ٢٠٠), one dirham is
due.


AAG INOS Jy Dall yy Lal oe al le IS GL det y tery gl IG die Ioan lin,
This is the ruling held by Abu Hanifa(with respect to the amount that increases


upon the nisab), whereas Abu Yusuf and Muhammad said, whatever increases
upon the minimum amount(nisab)requires ٢.٥% to be paid even if it is very little.





"A mithqol(synonymous here with a gold dinar)is a gold piece.[Kitab al-Athar ١٦٦]. Note: the
figure of ٨٧ grams for gold and the ٧٠٠ grams for silver is from taken from Maraky al-Falah[The Figh of Abu Hanifa And Its Proofs, Vol, ١{٣٣١| - Maraky al-Falah ٤١٠.

* Note: one mithqol equates to approx ٤.٣٥ grams. Four equates to ١٧.٤ grams.
* Note: ٤٠ dirhams equate to ١٤٠ grams, because | dirham equates to ٣.٥ grams. Therefore ٤٠ x
٣.٥ equals ١٤٠ grams. Hence, ٧٠٠ grams requires ٢.٥%. And for every ١٤٠ grams after that, one
dirham is due.


Book V: ZAKAT ٣٨١


Therefore, the two jurists maintain that whatever amount exceeds the ٢٠ mithqols
or ٢٠٠ dirhams is subjected to zakat by the same calculation. The basis for this
view are the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))addressed to Ali[What is in excess of the ٢٠٠ dirhams is subjected to its
prescribed rate]." Abu Hanifa relies upon the words of the Prophet in a tradition
of 'Amr ibn Hazm[There is no sadaqa in what is less than forty]."


Summary of zakat on gold


A)There is no zakat on any gold less than ٢٠ mithgols(or ٨٧ grams), b)when
there are ٢٠ mithgols and a lunar year passes over it, then half a mithqol is due
upon it(or ٢.٥%), c)then, for every ٤ mithqols after the initial ٢٠ mithqols, one
tenth of a mithqol is due. Note: if, after the initial ٢٠ mithqols there is some
excess, but it is less than ٤ mithqols, no zakat is due, d)zakat is imposed on gold
and silver dust as well as on jewellery and utensils made of them. Shafi'i said that
it is not imposed on women's jewellery nor on silver rings for men. The reason is
that it is lawful; therefore, they are similar to dresses worn. The Hanafis maintain
that the cause is wealth that grows, and the evidence of growth is present and that
is its readiness for use in trade by the very nature of its creation. This evidence is
legally acknowledged as distinguished from dresses.' Imam Muhammad said: "As
for jewellery consisting of gems and pearls, there is no zakat due on that, whatever
the case, but if it is gold and silver jewellery, then zakat is due upon it, unless it
belongs to an orphan, boy and girl, who has not come of age, in which case there
is no zakat due on their money. This is the verdict of Abu Hanifa."*


Summary of zakat on silver


A)There is no zakat on silver less than ٢٠٠ dirhams, b)if there are ٢٠٠ dirhams
and a lunar year passes over it, ٥ dirhams are due, c)if there is any excess,
nothing is due until it reaches ٤٠ dirhams; and then | dirham is due for it.
Likewise, for every ٤٠ dirhams after that, ١ dirham is due, d)if the predominant
part in silver metals or dirhams is silver, then their ruling is that of silver, but if
the predominant part is another metal, then their ruling is that of goods or
commodities. In addition; one must pay zakat on the currency that he has owned
for a complete lunar year if it equals at least the market value of ٧٠٠ grams of
silver. Since the zakat is for the benefit of the poor, if the money one owns
corresponds to the minimum value of silver, zakat must be paid.


" Abu Dawud.

This is found in the document of 'Amr ibn Hazm(God be pleased with him). Al-Zayla'i,
vol.٢, ٣٦٧.[Al-Hidaya ٢٦٨].

* Al-Hidaya ٢٦٩.

* Muwatta of Imam Muhammad ١٥٣. Kitab al-Athar ١٦٩.


٣٨٢ BOOK V: ZAKAT


ely Ga SN yey bs
Conditions That Make Zakat Obligatory On Live Stock
by EH pl SN GAS Sop)bi
Zakat on livestock becomes obligatory when three conditions are satisfied.
eLgole te bgt y Sym Ueade gan ot: JM


١. The first requires a year to pass over the animals while they are in the
possession of their owner.


bhai abs ol: jtlly


٢. The second requires the animals to reach the minimum number(nisab). Note:
Zakat on animals is calculated in number and not value.


Wg Fate OS gh alae ang |b ge FAS gli oo AT sl plat gb cle SG Ce al: SI,
aS Sys F | aS
٣. The animals must spend the whole year or most of it grazing in pastures. If the


animals graze or eat from what the owner has grown or paid for, such as hay, then
the zakat is not necessary to pay.


pals;
The Zakat on Camels
weal ope BLE gad J gD gale Ske y Lak CIS ١٣s B١S٥ GL LY oye LA oe BG Gd


There is no zakat if a person owns less than five camels. When a person owns five
camels and a(lunar)year passes over them, then the zakat of one sheep is to be
paid. This is the case up to nine camels.


cat BY ea ol Se okt OH lead ite A bY pai ol Up ULE ead te PY! nai ol Ul
coh aT gd


When the number reaches ١٠(up to ١٤), the zakat due is ٢ sheep. When they
reach ١٥(up to ١٩), the zakat is ٣ sheep. When the number reaches ٢٠(up to ٢٤),
the zakat is ٤ sheep.


ISG cobs y ae bi ٥ II gt LM oy bY oye ole ee Gad op ey LER LY! al Ol


When they reach ٢٥ head(up to ٣٥), the zakat is one bint makhad, a she-camel
which is one year old and entered its second year.


BSI eae y Dee D٥ NN ga UN Sag DY oe gS oe edd I y Ler PY os ples IB]Book V: ZAKAT ٣٨٣


When they are ٣٦(up to ٤٥), the zakat due is one bint labun, a she-camel which is
two years old and has entered its third year.


al G Conky ee SHS tl a abl, ٦ dam lead ual, Le LY ole lal os


When they reach ٤٦(up to ٦٠), there is a charge of one higgah, a she-camel which
is three years of age and has entered its fourth.


lB J cab y ee TUS Me eddy hed Mead Oey Ga}bY orks Bhs


When they are ٦١(up to ٧٥)there is a charge of one jadha'ah, a she camel which is
four years old and has entered its fifth year.


Soe pb g Ree Sf Obie Nped pndy gale]lee IBF A gh Key Ugedd yay Eee pV rye ١٣f


When they are ٧٦(up to ٩٠)the charge is two dint labuns. When they are ٩١(up to
١٢٠)the charge is two higgahs.


Be ON Ss BLE ay Oem Ugaad par gdy Lh y Be pred Ot Ue BLE A IS WS ٣٦ Dal BB


When the number exceeds ١٢٠(up to ١٤٤), the charge is one sheep for every five
camels. Therefore, for the first five in excess of ١٢٠, there is one sheep; for ten,
there is two seep; for fifteen, there is three sheep etc. up to ١٤٤. When the camels
reach ١٤٥(up to ١٤٩)the zakat due is a pair of higgahs plus one bint makhad. When
there are ١٥٠, the zakat due is three higgahs.


ALE Sy Gl SH Upedd Grey Gent Be pred gm BLs otal WS fe ٢ A


Thereafter, for every five camels in excess of ١٥٠(up to ١٧٤), the zakat is one
sheep. When they are ١٧٥ in number(up to ١٨٥)the zakat is three Azggahs plus
one bint makhad.


ds! Ue Ted ary ny Ble pad gm CO yd eng Gl SH Uged Cuiley ey BL puad g>
٦b peal ol


When they are ١٨٦(up to ١٩٥)the zakat is three higgahs plus one bint labun. When
they reach ١٩٦ up to ٢٠٠, the zakat is four Aiggahs.


remedy SW dey SI ntl ٣ LIS rt SS ete


Then, for every ٥٠ after ٢٠٠, one is to enact the same process he did in the ٥٠
after ١٥٠.


٣٨٤ BOOK V: ZAKAT


slats ٥
The Zakat On Livestock


Note: The owner must have possession of animals for one lunar year before zakat
is compulsory. And the nisab(minimum amount)is governed by the number of
animals in one's ownership and not by the value of each animal.


BIS ٥ aS aS ope CEM oe J SO
There is no zakat paid for less than thirty pasturing cattle.


When a person owns thirty cattle(up to ٣٩)and one year has passed over them,
the zakat due is a tabi' which is a one year old cow that has entered its second
year.


SUS Sopa y Ole SOF Sl ya speedy eal oye ee ped Crd al ol


Upon reaching forty head(up to ٥٩)the zakat due is a 'musin' which is two years
old and entered its third year.


SIE JS ABN Be Nj(IS NIK ny ٦ Deane ped OTE ALS Ol fe ees Qed bpd rane Gb OT US
nore nme ad JS ٣٩ + ans


When they reach seventy in number(up to ٧٩)the zakat due is a ¢abi'and = mu-sin.
When they reach eighty head, the zakat due is two musin's. And this is the
procedure in that for every thirty animals, a tabi' is due and for every forty
animals, a mu-sin is due. For example, if one possesses ٩٠, this comes to three tabi's
since one is due for every thirty.


Number Zakat on Livestock[| rear Od ayear Ord[٠٩ |Tanimal |
Cr[e٠٨٩[Fanimas[sd[٧٠[Tania[Tania[a[Paina[٩٠[Sania


١ animal plus ٢ animals
٤ animals or ٣ animals
















wallals;
Zakat On Sheep(And Goats
ASS ASL call ye Crate al bd


There is no zakat for less than ٤٠ grazing sheep. Note: The minimum on which
zakat is payable is ٤٠. Therefore, from ٠-٣٩, there is no zakat.


pall ope BLE gad yd le Shey Cee ole bal


When the number reaches ٤٠(up to ١٢٠)and a year has passed, the zakat due is
one sheep.


© OULE pea cp ey sel BL ras Ol
When there are ١٢١(up to ٢٠٠), the zakat due is two sheep.
٦ ols SW[gad stol yy tle prai Of UI
Upon reaching ٢٠١(up to ٣٩٩)the charge is three sheep.
Le asd lead Ble wt nai Ot
Upon reaching ٤٠٠ sheep, the zakat due is four sheep.
whan SE Le gag tlh ope WT FO ٥ gE Vy cele pally Lally als BER fe ٤٥ BL IS ٩S


Thereafter, for every hundred sheep after four-hundred, the zakat is one sheep,
which must be a lamb or a goat(which is at least one year old). And it is not
permitted to pay as zakat an animal less than one year old.


pH als;
Zakat On Horses


Dy tase[DI GS Spey Mace dil go)da pl oes


Abu Hanifa held that zakat is wajib on horses when five conditions are satisfied.
«ail gf Ca ope Glas en OK OF: Uy


١- The first condition is that the value of the horses must equal the nisab of gold
or silver. This means it must equal the value of ٨٧ grams of gold or ٧٠٠ grams of
silver.


ISL OG OI: GUL


٢- The horses are to be pasturing horses, grazing on open range pasturage for the
whole year or the majority of it. This excludes pasturage growing on the land that
a person owns.


٣٨٦ BOOK V: ZAKAT


J oAl lade Stal: HW,
٣- One year is to pass over the horses before zakat becomes obligatory.
byl yy ead Laks UL]CIWS Ly ٦ ISS gd OF fd Laks ١, ٥٣ IIS Of WLy L٩٥٣ ٥٩٥ oT: walls


+ The fourth requires that one have in his possession male and female horses, for
if they are purely male, then zakat is not necessary to pay, whereas if they are
purely females, Abu Hanifa held two narrations on the matter(God have mercy
upon him). One of these narrations held the requirement of paying zakat and the
other did not.


AD Led IS ٥ HG Lge for gt oS ULSI OS Of. J Lod ٥ WU SS of:
Leas fdI Gals ٥ Val Srey ae y ll


٥- It is conditional that the owner have acquired the horses for the purpose of
producing offspring, for if they are acquired to ride on or to carry about(people
or items), then no zakat is due upon them." Imam Abu Yusuf and Muhammad
held that there is no zakat paid on horses at all. They relied on the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[There is no sadaqah on the
Muslim for his slave or horse]." This is recorded in all the six sound compilations.
Abu Hanifa relies upon the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))[On each pasturing horse is a dinar or ten dirhams]."


Nas ed IS oe eel Lt Ly eyed oe ally sal elt ob: ft all ULI die glade Jey


According to the Madhhab of Abu Hanifa, the method of paying zakat upon the
horses is to be left to the owner; if he wishes, he may subject them to evaluation
and pay ٢.٥% on this or if he wishes he may pay one dinar upon every horse. This
option of paying a dinar upon each horse is available provided all the horses are
of equal value. If on the other hand, they differ in value, then it is wajib to subject
them to evaluation and pay the ٢.٥% required.


" If however they are taken for the purposes of trade, then one is required to pay zakat
upon them as he would for the merchandise of trade.

* An-Nasai ٢٤٦٩.

* Darqutani and al-Baihagi. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٣٥٧-٥٨.


gloss! ٤٩٦ lS ٥
Zakat On Merchandise Of Trade
NSLS E٩٠٣ ge aT poll pall ope OWS ly ٤d pe Le JS: Byles oy pe aL
The meaning of the merchandise of trade is all things that a person uses for trade,
even if they are grazing animals, crops, or fruits.
Mga ce peal ges od ail gh dll ope Ua eed Saal Of ye JS FTG sles ٥٩ ٦ ٠ ٩


The merchandise(or goods)used for trade is to be evaluated at the end of every
lunar year. If its value reaches the nisab(the minimum amount)of gold or silver,
then one is required to pay ٢.٥% of its worth.
iy LADY cog J Cer CI J oy pall Ol gee fo ٦ os gill Sol al Snes bo ٠ Ol a
eal ٦ ball lsd ADL cag Jy bhai

During this evaluation, it is necessary to keep in mind the benefit(and future)of
the poor and unfortunate persons, meaning that if the merchandise of trade
amounts to the nisab of silver if it is evaluated against it, though would not


amount to the nisab of gold if it is evaluated against it, then the goods are to be
evaluated against the silver and this is what is meant by the benefit of the poor.


However, if the merchandise of trade reaches the nisab(the minimum amount)of
both gold and silver, though the evaluation against one of these would be more
beneficial for the people, then one is to evaluate the goods to what is more
beneficial.


NM y Ea. D AS ٥
The Zakat On Crops And Fruit
EW Le oh ٢٥ gh OS WIE AIS SN ae gt IS Gol SJ — ace ail ٥٥)— de> yl ood
' ApS y oN yl AdIS She né slo! ie Sly ball wv tls


Abu Hanifa held that anything that grows from the earth(i.e. crops / produce /
harvest)requires zakat, whether it is a small or large amount, or whether it can
keep good in storage such as seeds, cotton or saffron or whether it is unable to
keep good in storage such as vegetables or fruit.


hae dy KS Ob: Sg: nb a Ye VE as(dal CE Vad See y Gee pl ondy
BP aad ced US Ol gh SG ee WI IS Of Ge gh SLaly bla' ot aly ol GW


٣٨٨ BOOK V: ZAKAT


Abu Yusuf and Imam Muhammad held that there is no zakat on that which grows
from the earth except when two conditions are satisfied; a)that the nature of the
produce is such that it can remain stored for a year(i.e. non perishable), and: b)that the harvest reach the level of nisab(minimum amount). The nisab for harvest
that can be weighed is five awsug(which is approximately ٩٦٠ kg). Whereas if the
harvest cannot be weighed, then the nisab is the value of five awsug. Note: one
wasq is equal to sixty sas by the standard of the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace)).


Imam Muhammad(the student of Abu Hanifa)held that there is no zakat on soft
tender greens(i.e. every plant which man nourishes himself)which include annual
herbs, vegetables and juicy fruits[rutab]" which have no enduring fruit,'(ie. it
cannot last a year without a great deal of treatment)such as water melon and
cucumbers. On whatever there is of wheat, barley, dried dates, raisins and their
like, there is no zakat until they amount to five wasags and a wasaq is sixty sa'(which is approximately ٩٦٠kg).'


WIS SOV > br Vy


And it is not a stipulation for a lunar year to pass before paying the zakat upon
one's harvest as is agreed upon, for the reason that Allah stated[.eat of their fruit
in their season, but render the dues that are proper on the day when the harvest is
gathered]. Hence, it is not conditional for a complete year to pass before paying
the zakat on one's harvest.


PSN ٥ CIS Ly ٦ AN ged SL gd ol Mele plat st ٢٥ OS OF SISIy Gs. ٥٣١ Ot fe lyasil
CIE om op pall nai etd S ٣ sl Ase gl LY gu plal


Scholars agreed that if the crops and fruits are grown from rain water for the
majority of the year, the rate of zakat is one tenth(or ١٠%)and if, for the majority
of the year, they are grown from irrigated water, then the zakat is half a tenth(or
٥%)on the total harvest.


" Rutab refers to what cannot be stored and does not endure, such as a sweet fruit.

* The definition of enduring is that it should last for a year in the main without a great deal of
treatment, such as wheat and barley.

* 'The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is no zakat on anything less
than five wasgs}, but according to Abu Hanifa because of the Prophet's saying[That which the
earth produces has a due on it a tenth], without distinction.[Kitab al-Athar ١٧٤].

* Al-An'am ١٤١.


BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٨٩





٣S I
Treasure Troves
ale be ote slelyn ole My Laid y AUS Gree rat sf El ٢١d ٣ ol lee ay lat
NS)gang OUAaLN igh SLL! fal ado Le Obs ol En!
If a Muslim or Christian finds valuable minerals such as gold, silver or lead in the
kharaj land or in ushr land, whether one finds them in their original form or they
were buried there in the pre-Islamic times in the days of ignorance, it is called
rikaz(treasure trove). Note: ushr land is a land on which zakat is obliged and
kharaj land is that which land tax is levied. Al-Hidayah states that if minerals are


found within a house, then there is no charge on it according to Abu-Hanifa.
Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf held that zakat is due regardless.


tle gallo peer tI SW Gs
An immediate zakat of ٢٠% is necessary when one has discovered a treasure trove.
SLAM g ol all ag pace Vy ٦ y AWS Soball Sal Boj yey bl She St SUS I oe rat be patsy
BIS J ٣ lies diy
The wealth(zakat)that results from treasure(and minerals)is to be added with
the animals of the war(booty)and distributed for the general benefit of the
country. This wealth is not to be specifically donated to the poor and unfortunate
persons and neither to all the other types of recipients of zakat because this is for
the general benefit of the nation. This is state capital.
als Ji ٣ plas
Recipients Of Zakat
cababally ٦ SLM yo ol aa Gad(SI SB LLG ail pe ٥٣ opi Sl wet SI als Cbs
.(femal cally ٦ alll ee By ٦ ye gladly ٦ OU MSs ٦ pe phd dad ply « gle


The recipients of zakat are eight as Allah mentioned in His saying[zakat is for
the poor, destitute and helpless, those who are employed to administer the funds,
those whose hearts have been recently reconciled to the truth, for the freeing of a
slave, the one in debt, those fighting for Islam and the way farer].'


IN SMe ply VY)Gy « PY raed: gb ٢ tS I gel]bs op All | Slo ٥٤٣





" Tawbah ٦٠.


٣٩٠ BOOK V: ZAKAT


These are the eight types of recipients upon which zakat is forwarded to, provided
two conditions are met; i)that one is Muslim and ii)that it not be the father,
children or wife of the person paying the zakat, because he is required to fund
them anyway through his general expenses(not zakat). If however, one is not
obliged to fund one of his relatives, then zakat may be allocated to them. It is
therefore not valid to pay zakat to; a)a disbeliever," b)a rich wealthy man who
possesses the minimum amount, c)to a wealthy infant, d)to a person of the family
of Hashim," and their freed slaves, e)to one's father, grandfather, his child, or the
child of his child, f)to his wife or g)to purchase the shrouds for a deceased
person.
ho oda sol le Las Vis


One has the option of restricting the entire zakat to one of these categories or may
distribute it among them equally.


Definition Of Each Of The Eight Types Of People
Ula aly Ved Le ad OLS! JS ٥٤d all Ul


١- A needy person(fagir)is one who possesses wealth, though it does not amount to a


nisab(minimum amount). In other words, a person who himself does not have
enough to pay zakat is deemed a poor person.


has pe She Lyel gh et WL YL! JS: ٩gd(SLI LI,


٢- A destitute and helpless person(miskin)is one who does not own anything aside


from a few basic necessities of his own. The circumstances of the destitute are
worse than that of a needy person.


ple ob pgebe CF yf NS iI eae Si: ygd Plu Ul;


٣- Those employed to collect are persons who are appointed by the Islamic head of
state or government to collect zakat.


They can however be given other types of sadaqah although Imam Shafi'i disagrees and
held that he is not to pay it to him and this too is a narration from Abu Yusuf. The Hanafi
school relies on the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Give
charity to the people of all religions]. Had it not been for a tradition narrated by Mu'adth,
we would have upheld payment to them out of the zakat as well.(Ibn Abi Shaybah. Al-
Zayla'i, vol. ٢, ٣٩٨). Al-Hidayah ٢٩١.

* The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[O Banu Hashim, God has
prohibited for you the dirty wash water of the people and their impurity, and has
compensated you with the fifth of the fifth].(Al-Zayla'i. vol.٢,٤٠٣). Banu Hashim are the
families of Ali, Abbas, Ja'far and al-Harith ibn 'Abd al-Muttalib((God be pleased with
them)as well as their clients. All these persons transcend from Hashim ibn Abd Munaf,
and the tribe takes its name from him.


Book V: ZAKAT ٣٩١


Hgcatd gh eM DLLs B١٥ II pe glans pling ale ail fro HOW ٥: gd og gh WILL,
٤d ge sb lyedd sl ate


+ Those whose hearts have recently been reconciled(new Muslims)are people who the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would give zakat so that they
would accept Islam or new converts were given zakat to strengthen their faith or
zakat was given to people so that when they returned to their(non-believing)people, they would preach about Allah and His Messenger((God bless him and
grant him peace)). It should be noted that Umar((God be pleased with him))discontinued the giving of zakat to new converts due to Islam's increasing
number.


fees ٦ pom ged JU pe Ltd eigell Lak Ob peel Ye petal ae ٠ ais | lS cy dU Leal : cA(ob SDs
eee Las fe Lo > cals SIL Lua PAH! os

٥- Slaves purchasing their freedom are slaves who make an agreement with their

masters, in that if they pay a fixed amount of wealth to their master, they will be


freed. Islam therefore established a portion of the zakat for them as it is
concerned with their freedom.


٤٥)dle ٦ ne sul cpl: Pally


٦- Those in debt are persons who are in debt and unable to settle it. Note: one may
be in possession of a nisab, though one's debt is in excess of this amount.


Mi BAIS «hel Lads rl)PLY! gates sill a gdlg at dl: yn Cail Le ٣)٧- Striving in the path of Allah - refers to the soldiers whom the imam prepares for
war with the intention of making high the Word of Allah. They are therefore
given enough to suffice them for the operation.


atbeg Adal JS pe sll pe py eral ay alatecd Stall ps a Gg pe LMS ya(Lt Ns
ody ٩ AS SL JIS ٤٣ SS MN Se oye gaa


٨ The Traveller(wayfarer)is a traveller who has no spending money at hand
therefore bringing his journey to a stand-still and rendering him unable to reach
his destination where he does have wealth. He is therefore given from the wealth
of zakat even if he possesses a great amount of wealth in his homeland.


٣٩٢ BOOK V: ZAKAT


a٣ AS SI po ٥ ٩t YL
That Which Zakat Is Not Permitted For
٠٢ Lad gh eee SF gt dre oly GIS I os ae eG po jy YS
It is not permitted to allocate(or forward)zakat for the construction of a mosque,
for the burial of a deceased, nor for the debt of the deceased.
AB leas BIS Uy ٦ Mala SLaadl Spel pe at ٣ It yl OY W٣٥c ated ed, AL OTY,
F & gles laod>

It is not permitted to allocate zakat to buy a slave in order to free him/her
because the wealth of zakat is different to the wealth that is for the general benefit
of the people and also because zakat has been outlined and specified by the Law
Giver Allah. Note; this applies when there is no agreement between the slave and


his master as discussed earlier. Though, if there is an arrangement between the
slave and master, then zakat is permitted for that cause.


paul Le
Sadagah Al-Fitr(Charity Of Breaking Fast)The obligation is based upon the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))in his sermon[Pay for each free person and slave, for the mature
person and the juvenile, one-half measure[sa']of wheat or one measure[sa']of
dates or one measure[sa']of barley]."


pail Bio yxy by
Conditions That Render Sadagah Al-Fitr Wajib
bg pe OW ad Creel sy IS fe heal Gas UF
Sadagah al-Fitr is wajib upon one who meets three conditions;
Ee Waal y> ٣٦ Lali Dba ISL ٥S Ob: CIty > O٩٨ ab GIL, «Lee oS ol Sy!
We OK at Ay Vy. Sod ol sb Shea O١٥ pny peed gl Fy bal Kb fo gil oly
ASLO SAY,


I)that one be Muslim, ii)free and iii)that one possess the nisab(the minimum
amount)on top of the amount needed to cover his housing necessities and debts.
It does not matter whether a person owns this minimum amount for a year or not
or whether it is growing or not(such as being invested to produce more money,


" This is related from al-Zuhri through different chains of transmission. One of these is
recorded by Abu Dawud.(Al-Hidaya ٢٩٧).


BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٩٣


the sadaqah must still be paid). In addition, it is not a condition for one to be sane
or mature. This indicates that if one suffers from insanity or is a child, then the
sadaqah is paid on their behalf. The basis is that the cause is "the head person"
whose financial burden he bears and over whom he exercises legal authority as
such a person(i.e. the head)is associated with the obligation(of fitr).


The Guardian Is Required To Pay The Sadagah On Be Whom
Ol ade EV dt abe ٦٩٦ pball paral oy ٦ ٩ dint oo ati SL ye Jo Sige ty
EV ٩ ٦B abel ote ٦ Vy atl alah ٥٦ Vy pS oly ye Vy ٠ ary)ot iL oe ee
OY]GS ote

The man is required to pay the(sadaqah of fitr)from his own money for himself,
his young children(who do not have wealth)and for his slave who works in the
home. Though it is not necessary for him to pay the fitr from his money for his
wife, his mature children and neither his slave used for trade or his disobedient
slave until he becomes obedient.

Se SNS fy end SLs ye Sy bg ATL SS JOP: JAS Gyo yo call aba Ske ope igo ٤٥

JU U٣ ope ay ga ol
The rich child who has money is to have it paid for from that money. And the
insane person takes the ruling of a child, in that if the insane does not possess
wealth, then it is to be paid for from the money of his guardian; though, if the
insane person possesses wealth, then the guardian pays it from that.
ver gles
When It Is Necessary To Pay
reed shy oe Je Vy ahi Ob ope fe OF He hill ne yy ope pel ¢ gle, peal ae F
pall & lb da dll De JS lH}ayy. oda

Sadaqah al-Fitr becomes obligatory from the dawn of Eid al Fitr. It is therefore noi
obligatory on those who die prior to dawn. Also, the sadaqah is not required o!
those who are born or become Muslim after the dawn of Eid. Additionally, it is
recommended to pay the sadagah of fitr after dawn arrives, but before the
performance of the Eid prayer.

D٩: JB ٩ Obar, eas SN ys bby LDS ee Sy Lia ney al ese philly Ue Gt ey

+ dbae y Syl J!


٣٩٤ BOOK V: ZAKAT


If a person pays the sadaqah al-Fitr a day or two in advance, it is valid. Some
scholars maintain that it may be paid in advance by ten days and even halfway
through Ramadan, while others held that it is valid to pay one month in advance,
which is at the beginning of Ramadan.


Cee BST gh ee pe UI ebne I LG ye ee nee gh Ye JS Jy
It has also been stated by some scholars that if it is advanced a year or two, it is
valid, while others held, that if it is paid ten years or more in advance, it is valid.


The sadaqah of fttra is not excused if it is delayed, even if one extended the delay.
However, one has committed an offence due to the delay.


pal Greys oF SI GloY!
The Types Of Things That May Be Used To Pay Sadagah Al-Fitr
' Sede petty pally St Gol dn fool» pillars ¢ Fy
Sadaqah al-Fitr can be paid with one of the four following types of food; i)wheat,
ii)dates, iii)barely, iv)raisins(sultanas).
el II laa
The Required Amount
tall gl patll oe Glee she tigen s]abo gl jl oy ple tea pl JS oe EBs


The amount due per person is half a measure[sa']of wheat, flour or sawik(which
is a mix of wheat and barley)or one may give one full measure of dates and
barley.


AF pte gy Gl ee ANU pay de Glace SU pe Ce ly
CH Ly leads pall JIL platy


According to Abu Hanifa, raisins are in the same grade as wheat. Whereas Abu
Yusuf and Imam Muhammad held that raisins are in the same grade as barley.
Al-Shafi"i said that for all these things there is one sa' due to the tradition of Abu
Sa'id al-Khudri(God be pleased with him)who said, "This is what we used to pay
during the period of the Messenger of God."" The Hanafis adopt the hadith
previously mentioned; where the Prophet said in his sermon[Pay for each free
person and slave, the young and old, one half sa' of wheat or one sa' dates or one
sa' of barley]. What al-Shafi'i related is interpreted to mean what is paid in excess


" An-Nasai ٢٥٠٣. This hadith is recorded by the six sound compilations in long and short
versions.


BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٩٥


voluntarily." The[sameasure according to the Egyptian scale is two and a third
scoops with a ladle. The ladle is the instrument with a long handle used to scoop


foodstuff.
inci ch eh oats


It is permitted to give sadaqah al-Fitr in cash that is equivalent of either one of the
above.


phil)Ladi ٢٥١ yo lB ally . pail Call ch +١ ob de spall Ol & pglatt Gy


The most evident opinion upon which the fatwa is given, is that paying the
equivalent in cash is best. For what is essential, is that which is most beneficial for


the poor and needy.
pall Give all ad ye
The Recipients Of Sadagah Al-Fitr
ety Sp SES)mgell GG pill Ge! J}pill Bio ai,
The recipients of sadaqah al-Fitr are the same recipients as that of zakat. They are:
O gas a gta belly ٦ Ao ٢٦ O gaball"y ٦ SIU Vy SLANy ASL « of aa


١- The Poor

٢- Destitute and helpless

٣- Those employed by the imam to collect zakat

٤- Those whose hearts have been recently reconciled to the truth(new Muslims).
٥- For the freeing of a slave(who have made an agreement with their master).

٦- Those in debt

٧- Those fighting for Islam


٨- The wayfarer(i.e. the traveller stranded from his hometown).
oY SL oye yee hy toly ee fo Ladd)A person may restrict the total sadaqah to one of these categories, even if all the
other types of recipients are present.


" Al-Hidaya ٣٠٠.


٣٩٦ BOooK V: ZAKAT


Mak pe SAS jy Grad js


Transferring The Sadagah And Zakat To Another City


hy coals yt aby gl Goya sll sii any shall Mae Sitly J gall pled any lS i ii oS
She Banca gh gS ald Lay ٨ al gh ٦ Sa Gl YN « pesalll Adlcall yo il Milica! cals
» aged pa old Gas elunad Vad aii sic ge yyl gle oth gf yee gal

When the zakat has been gathered after the completion of a year and when the
sadaqah al-Fitr which is necessary to pay has been settled, it is disliked to transfer
the wealth(which has been collected)to another city, even if the two cities are not
far apart in that the distance between the two is less than that which one needs to
become a traveller, unless in the other city, there is a relative of the one who paid
zakat or sadaqah, or unless in the other city, there are people who are in greater
need, or there are people who are more righteous(in which case it is not disliked
to transfer zakat or sadaqah to them provided they are eligible), or in the other
city there are people who would be more beneficial for the Muslim nation in that
they would be a cause for teaching others knowledge. In these cases, it is not
disliked to transfer the wealth to them from the zakat or sadaqah.


eth BY bead > PY be ale BY bald be oO SN po Lally


However, the best act is to distribute the zakat and sadaqah to the closest
relatives, followed by the next closest relatives and so on. Thereafter it is
distributed to one's neighbours, then the people of one's area, then to those in the
same profession as he(provided they are poor)and then to the people of that
state.


٣


fe


ELC MAN TS


The Chapter
of Hay &
Umran


AU MAN AAA AA Aaa


٢
=E


SRE Bs


٣٩٨ BooK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


Book VI: Hajj and Umrah


CONTENTS:

The Chapter Of Hajj And Umrah ٣٩٧
The Meaning Of Hajj ٤٠١
The Ruling Of Hajj And Conditions That Render It Compulsory ٤٠١
The Proof Of Hajj Being Obligatory ٤٠٢
Conditions For Performing Hajj ٤٠٣
Conditions That Validate Hajj ٤٠٤
The Time of Hajj ٤٠٤
The Pillars of Hajj ٤٠٥
The Wajib Requirements Of Hajj ٤٠٦
The Sunan Of Hajj ٤٠٧
Sites Of Ihram(Mawagit)٤٠٨
How To Perform Hajj ٤١٠

Umrah ٤٢٠
The Meaning of Umrah ٤٢٠
The Ruling Of Umrah ٤٢٠
Is There A Specific Time For Umrah? ٤٢٠
The Pillars Of Umrah ٤٢١
Wajib Requirements ٤٢١
The Conditions Of Umrah ٤٢١
How Yo Perform Umrah ٤٢١

Hajj Qiran ٤٢٢
The Meaning Of Qiran ٤٢٢
The Ruling Of Qiran ٤٢٢
How To Perform Qiran ٤٢٣
Sacrifice ٤٢٣

Tamattu' ٤٢٤
The Meaning of Tamattu' ٤٢٤
The Ruling Of Tamattu' ٤٢٥
How To Perform Tamattu' ٤٢٥
Sacrifice ٤٢٦

Offences While In Ihram ٤٢٦
The Types Of Violations ٤٢٦
When The Sacrifice Of An Animal Is Wajib ٤٢٧
When Is Sadaqah Required ٤٢٧
When Less Than The Sadaqah Is Required ٤٢٨
When Is One Required To Pay The Value ٤٢٨

The Offering(Hadyi)٤٢٩
The Meaning Of Offering ٤٢٩


The Types Of Offering ٤٢٩


Book V١: HAJJ AND UMRAH


٣٩٩
A Sheep Suffices For What Violation ٤٢٩
Conditions Of The Offering ٤٢٩
The Time Of Slaughtering The Offering ٤٣٠
The Place Of Slaughter ٤٣٠
Visiting The Prophet ٤٣١
The Ruling Of Visiting Graves ٤٣١


Visiting The Tomb Of The Prophet as


٤٠٠ BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH
The 'Book Of taj And Umrah


God the Exalted said((People owe Allah to make Pilgrimage to the House, whoever is able to
fd the way). Quran ٣:٩٧.


The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[A Umrah is an expiation for sins
ammitted between it and the next, but an accepted hajj will receive no less a reward than
Paradise).
This chapter uses a number of particular words that are as follow:
Arafah - is the name of a plane about three miles to the east-southeast of Mecca.
Hagj - is the pilgrimage to Mecca.
Kram. - is the state of consecration that pilgrims enter for hajj and umrah.
Masjid al-Haram - is the holy mosque in Mecca that encompasses the ka'bah.
Safa and Marwah - are the two hills connected by a course adjacent to Masjid al-Haram.


Umrah - is the lesser Pilgrimage(or to go to Mecca where one is permitted to visit any time of
the year).


Talbtyah - is the saying "Ever at your service, O Allah, ever at your service."


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٠١
Bpestly etl ols


The Chapter Of Hajj And Umrah
ah sn
The Meaning Of Hajj
«ab(dane iui CS ISNTL DG comme | pai oles J]Lendl fo Sa(ql)jl,
MC pak oye}Be pat Sel oto ٢ pat O١٥ ٥٥L٥))be le > jar y
Linguistically hajj means to aim for something great. For example; one may say
"hajjajtu such and such," if it was one's intention to honour him. According to its legal


meaning; hajj is to visit a specified place, to perform specific actions in specific
times.


be fey Say Gil pl D١ atl oe g٤b ٠ padell OLS! UI


As for the specified place, it is the sacred House of Allah in Makkah and the
mountain of Arafah.


Up Gi My bs My Leal oy ely Cod il ball: gb Le pall ULES Ul,


As for the specific actions, it is the tawaf of the House of Allah, the moving
between the Safa and Marwah(sa fy)and the standing at Arafah.


Ue Scie MN ah atl ped pe patel ep MU,
As for the specific times, it is the months of hajj that are mentioned in the coming


paragraphs.
andl fil by poy Qtl pK


The Ruling Of Hajj And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
٤ tl, Saal y ٦ eI: Pat by tad crcl yp fe ritelyi py pill bi ٣ tly


Hajj is obligatory once in a lifetime upon one who satisfies six conditions, they are:


١- Islam. One must be a Muslim as hajj is an act of worship. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))sent a Messenger to Yemen, and said[Invite
them to testify that there is no god but Allah. If they obey you, then inform them
that they must do such and such]and he mentioned haijj.


٢- Maturity. The child is not obliged to perform hajj due to the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[The pen has been lifted
from three]and he mentioned the child and insane among them.


٣- Sanity. A person who is not of sound mind is not required to observe hajj in
accordance with the above hadith.


٤٠٢ Book VI: Hajy)AND UMRAH


+ Freedom, i.e. one must not be a slave. The Prophet((God bless him and give
peace))said[A slave who has performed hajj ten times and is then set free is
under an obligation to perform the hajj of Islam; a juvenile who performs the hajj
ten times and then attains maturity is under an obligation to perform the hajj of
Islam].


Balj «dled Waly as SAK sh eg Ate ley Lbs LL at be ati, ag Ob U٣. Glad Lo dually
A٩٩٦ > J]pty lane oVsly de ٥٥ ce dhe daw Jo


٥- One must possess the financial means - which is to have sufficient funds to
spend upon oneself to travel to and from the journey and also to buy or rent
either for accommodation or transport. These funds must be extra to the funds
one has left for his family members(during his absence)from his wife, young
children and servant until he returns. This means that one must possess the
ability to maintain himself and family until his return.


Pl lo Dbl pe jolt b i lay Call plally


٦- One must have knowledge that hajj is obligatory. This condition is exclusively
for those who become Muslim in the land of the enemy(dar al-harb). This means
that if one embraces Islam on enemy land, he must have knowledge that hajj is
obligatory before it is imposed on him.


ct! al sil Ws
The Proof Of Hajj Being Obligato
GUVs Eady ٦ ES: Atl al pil fe fly


The evidence that hajj is obligatory is based on the verses of Quran, the sunna of
the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)and the consensus of the
scholar's(Jjma).


Aap al Unreal ope Sel eam tI fe ahhy)): SWS Jy OES LT


As for the Quran, Allah says[Pilgrimage to the house is a duty men owe to Allah
those who can afford the journey].'
Si Ugeg pred atl Sle ٢٥ ILI L)): py Hal de SF er SoG EL,(CLA aa gh Lo yye ٠b | rad at dy be ٢): py SLA ele
As for the sunna, there are many narrations, such as the saying of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace), "Verily, Allah has declared hajj obligatory
upon you, therefore perform hajj." The Prophet(God bless him and grant him


" Al-Baihaqi . Al-Hakim al-Mustadrak. This has been graded as sound by the two shaykhs.
? Quran ٣:٩٧.


peace)also said, "One who possesses wealth and has all the means by which he
could reach the sacred House of Allah and yet does not perform hajj, he may
either die as a Christian or Jew."


tele on ala fo ٤ ٩ GAO)Jo eel Mal eel


And verily, all the scholars of Ahi asSunna have stated that hajj is obligatory upon
those who are able.


gtlelsi bs ~
The Conditions(Required)For Performing Hajj
iby SEW atl bin,
There are three conditions a person must meet in order to perform hajj;
OH phe Fae LV lo pall co Sal SU ٥٥ OAL by ob ly «decal JM


١- Sound health; this means that one's body must be free from illnesses that
would prevent him from performing the actions required in the journey of hajj. If
one's body or ailment prevents him in undertaking the required actions in hajj,
then he is not obligated to perform it.


OT egehe oS! Glall Gatlly ay Ml be Vy ٠ Sade Sp gain ogling Gay dae de oflal vo tts
oot Cle TE oy


Hajj is not obligatory on the crippled, chronically ill or those who have disabilities.
Likewise, it is not obligatory on one who has lost his legs or is ill and neither upon
an old enfeebled person. However, they are required to instruct others to perform
hajj on their behalf.


wy gall Lo Sy dad SUA AE WS Foals pe bl cols GUL,


٢- It is conditional that the route to Makkah be safe; and the factor considered
here is that one has a predominant belief that it is safe. The fatwa issued on this
matter is in accordance with this view.


BAN fe pall dai ٦١٥ gmc gh TM CAS LE tS Ign my ٩٣ gry AM ee OS ob: LU
» SUEYU YE pedi ae ٢ y J ١٣٤


٣- The female must be accompanied by her husband or a relative of the
prohibited category(mahram), such as her son whether she is young or old. If the
mahram(unmarriageable person)will not accompany her unless she covers his
expenses, then she must fund his expenses. The rule of mahram is someone
whom she is forever forbidden to marry because of lineage or affinity that is the
relation by marriage or suckling. Ibn Abbas said; I heard the Messenger of Allah((God bless him and give him peace))saying[A man should not be alone with a


٤٠٤ Book VI: HAJ)AND UMRAH





woman unless she has a mahram with her and a woman should travel with a
mahram]. A man said, 'Messenger of Allah, my wife has set out for hajj and I have
been selected to go on a certain expedition(jihad).' The Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))said(Go and make hajj with your wife]." Additionally, the
minor and the insane person are not considered in the category of mahram as
Protection is not attained through them.


a! anv by ro
Conditions That Validate Hajj
Sha by ٢ OW qt onal b prs

Hajj is considered valid when three conditions are fulfilled;

OLUL SS y La ٣ Stl § pet Ge Tyke yay el >i
|: That one acquire the state of Ikram, which is a combination between the
intention in the heart(to perform the rites of hajj or umrah)with the uttering of
the ¢albiyah upon the tongue. This intention and recitation is made when one


Wears the ihram clothes. It is called /hram because the one in this state is
forbidden certain things as shall be covered further on.


We boyhood Ib awl,


٢ That the hajj take place in the specified time for hajj. This time is prescribed by
the Sacred law.


wi yup ٩٥ ٩M Ld GIL pes
٤ And not to indulge in sexual intercourse prior to the standing at Arafah.
a
The Time Of Hajj
DN S٨ sgt oe SoM PL hey Btadll ٥٣ ety Sly ppt gaye ¢ tll ood Cy oad!


The time of hajj is specified by the Sacred Law. It is the month of Shawwal, the
nonth of Dhul Qa'dah and the first ten days of Dhul Hijjah.


Co ALB ٥ «ob S٥٣ le Pally Beall ae go ges aby(Corl glee qth ol): Lai ail Ji
al ge dil Ol ype)Ulnall
Alah said[For hajj the months are well known].' Allah has also said[They ask


yu concerning the new moons. Say: They are but signs to mark fixed periods of
tne in the affairs of men for pilgrimage].* And indeed the Prophet((God bless





fukhari and Muslim.
s Baqarah ٢:١٩٧.
l-Baqarah ١٨٩.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٠٥


him and grant him peace))clarified this in what has been mentioned earlier and
in what the Companions narrated from him((God bless him and grant him


peace)).
Ny phat ٦ gh gS end fe pall lel pe ci gilda J ٥ LL pl > M pla! ay ZU So Sy
-hdelel-y


It is prohibitively disliked for a person to adopt ihram for hajj before this time;
and it makes no difference whether a person is sure of himself in abstaining from
the forbidden acts of ihram or whether he is unsure of himself, it is disliked
before the specified period. Note: even if one enters the state of ihram, he cannot
perform any actions of hajj until the period of hajj arrives. In relation to umrah, it
is permitted during the entire year by agreement of the scholars with no dislike,
whether in the months of hajj or other months, except for five days that are
disliked: the day of Arafah, the day of Sacrifice, and the days of Tashriq because
during these times the pilgrims are busy performing hajj.


gtlls,l
The Pillars Of Hajj


OLS)als
There are two pillars of hajj
٩٢ ٨ Ebb SI dl ٥٨ oe ele yy Ss ce Bp Gi Mody ٩ tad Jy we Gl: Las!
SON SUL patos Ny ٦ et rye bed Ca Ob ead ace Sball


l- The first pillar of hajj is the standing at Arafah, even for a moment. The time of
standing at Arafah begins when the sun declines from the meridian on the ٩ of
Dhul Hijjah until the next dawn, which is the ١٠° of Dhul Hijjah. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)commanded the caller to call "Hajj is
'Arafah,"(that is, the chief of all the pillars of hajj). The greatest act in this case, is
for one to stand at Arafah before the sun has set and remain standing there until
it sets. As for the one who reaches Arafah after sunset, he may leave for
Muzdalifah even after a moment of stay.

SM S> J JS pln ta SI bl tl oka ٥]ying Ol ae EAS y> BL GI yb: Lgl
٢. The second is to perform Tawaf alZtyarah(also known as Tawaf alt Ifadah)around the ka'bah seven times. And performing the majority of these seven
circuits satisfies the completion of the pillar. For example, if a person performs
four circuits, then he is regarded as having completed the pillar in a technical
sense, because indeed the law has set that having completed the majority satisfies
the whole. This tawaf is performed after the standing at Arafah. If this action is
missed on the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah, it must be performed by the ١٢" of Dhul
Hijjah.


٤٠٦ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The Wajib Requirements Of Hajj


i٣١٣ a gl olely ae,
There are eight necessities of hajj;
Naa pig Ob]pul p yy pred Bee dey oye ch ٩٩ ¢ Mad yh dado ps G٥ SN


١- The first necessary element is the standing at Muzdalifah even if it is only for a
moment. Its time is after the true dawn on the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah until the sky is
very bright. Note: at Muzdalifah, a person is to unite the sunset prayer and the
nightfall prayer at the time of the nightfall prayer('isha).


bit JS Gay ML eect y eal grant! stn y ON yo ae by ly Lana Ge at: GUI,


٢- The second is to go between the Safa and Marwah seven times(known as sa').
One is to begin at Safa and end with the Marwah. This means that one is to
perform seven circuits beginning the first at Safa and conclude the last circuit at
Marwah.


gly polell doit go: HU,


٣- The stoning of the sites(Jamrahs)during the days of Nahr and Tashriq. The
first site is known as Jamrah al-Kubrah, which is closest to al-Khayf mosque. The
second site is known as Jamrah al-Wusta. The third site is known as Jamrah al-


Aqabah.
- Ks HN gba Mie Of: by ٢K fal I pall GIyb : aI


+ The fourth is Tawaf asSadr(also known as Tawaf al-Wada' or farewell)which is
wajib upon other than those who reside in Makkah. This is observed when one
intends to return to his family. Some scholars held that it is sunna, not wajib.


١ dw ft fedy e praecdl gi GILT: natty


٥- It is wajib to shave or cut the hair after concluding the stoning of Jamrah al-
Aqabah on the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah, and it should take place within the boundaries
of the Haram of Makkah. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said
"May Allah have mercy on those who shave their heads," and he repeated this
another two times, after which the people said: "And(what about)those who cut
their hair short, Messenger of Allah?" The Prophet(God bless him and give him
peace)replied, "And those who cut their hair short." In addition, some scholars


have deemed this act as sunna.


» JIU Glas oy el > Dl pled: oI


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٠٧


٦- It is wajib to adopt the ihram from one of the migqat sites. The miqat are
designated sites where one must wear the ihram from as mentioned earlier, and
these areas are discussed further on.


Ae gly ol GAS: ltt


٧- It is wajib to uncover the head and face for a male, while the female covers her
head but uncovers the face. It is reported in the Muwatta' that Yahya related to
me from Malik from Nafi' that Abdullah Ibn Umar used to say that women in
ihram should neither wear a(face)veil nor gloves.


Uae al VE: oll


٨- The eighth necessity is not to wear stitched clothes, for the garments of hajj
must be seamless containing no sewing in them.


ee
The Sunan Of Hajj
: BS ope qos


There are many sunan during hajj time,
' el > wae ILE YI Vie
The major bath(ghusl)is sunna when the pilgrim intends to enter ihram even if it


is a menstruating woman or a woman in a state of postnatal bleeding.
٦ der ology IG! Gack OF ley


To wear two new cloths known as izar(waist wrapper)and ridah(cloak), is sunna
and thereafter to perform two rak'ahs of supererogatory prayer.


ADS oo ٢S oly
To pronounce the talbiyah many times with an audible voice. It is recommended
while standing, sitting, riding, walking and even in the state of major impurity.
The talbiyah is:[At Your service, O Allah, at Your service. At Your service, none


can be associated with You, at Your service. All Praise and blessing belongs to
You as does the kingdom. None can be associated with You].


-¢gtall il yb gery


The Tawaf al-Qudum(arrival)is from the sunan." Hence, from what we have learnt,
there are three types of tawaf. The first is obligatory and this is Zawaf al-Ifadah(or
az-Ziyarah). The second is wajib and is the Tawaf asSadr(or al-Wada')which is the
farewell tawaf. The third is sunna, which is the Tawaf al-Qudum(arrival).


" Muwattah, In The Chapter Of Hajj, ١٥.
? This tawaf is also called tawaf at-Tahiyah(greeting).


٤٠٨ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The following are also deemed sunna;


a)after adopting ihram, it is sunna to send blessings upon the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace)), to make supplications for Paradise and protection
from the Hellfire.


b)to say 'Allahu akbar and 'There is no deity but Allah' when the pilgrim arrives at
the place opposite to the ka'bah.


c)to perform voluntary tawaf as often as possible.


d)to leave Makkah for Mina after sunrise on the ٨" of Dhul-Hijjah and to spend
the night there.


e)to spend the nights in Mina in the days of Mina.
f)to offer sacrifice by the pilgrim who observes the Ifrad form of hajj.
h)to drink the water of Zamzam and to pour it over one's head and body.


i)taking hold of the Multazam, the wall of the ka'bah that stands between the
door and the black stone by placing one's chest and face on it. And taking hold of
the drapes of the ka'bah and supplicating to God.


TAS Gedl cil ys
The Sites Of Ikram For Hajj(Mawagit)Bye gh oe FV Lag gl VIS to ead ye JS oe De Stl ¢ LI o> ٥,


Allah specified the sites that a person is required to adopt ihram from. One is not
to pass through these sites except in a state of ihram for hajj or Umrah. The sites
are as follows;


Lrdoh per cry pary lil PV dint: ay


i)AlJuhfah near Rabigh - This is the site for the residents of Syria and
Egypt(and the Maghrib e.g. North-West Africa)and the people
passing through those countries. This site is approximately ٢٠٤km away
from Makkah.


ole pez cg tall Jo GEIL ٩٥,


ii)Dhul Hulayfa - This is the site for the residents of Madina and the
people passing through Madina. This site is approximately ٤٥٠km away
from Makkah.

ee rsd PY G٦ by


tit)Dhat Irq - This is the miqat(site)for the residents of Iraq, Iran,
Khurasan etc. And those passing through these places. This site is
approximately ٩٤km away from Makkah.


BooK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


«erry pes dy dos JAY GU oy


Qarn al-Nazil - This is the site for the residents of Najd and an
passing through the country. This site is approximately ٩٤km away
Viakkah.


٤ a٢ A)cll JAY poly


Yalamlam - is the site for the residents of Yemen(and countries
ndia, Pakistan, and Malaysia etc.)and anyone passing thrc
hese countries. This site is approximately ٥٤km away from Makkah.





٢ ONS O}aad WW fe SLEW ode tol frar OF IF ٤ ٦ tof mod ٥ye
; el >i wil, sas £٩٩

d for those intending hajj to adopt ihram before reaching or

d to do this is best, provided one is sure in himself that he wil

of the forbidden acts of ihram.

٥٩٦ Y pS ٦ ٠٠,٥)OSs gl clined eb Le SU odie te edd ab als


LEV ae gl tl ted I


٤١٠ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


If one is a resident in the country of hajj, but lives closer to Makkah than the sites
of ihram, then his migat(site of ihram)is any place he chooses on the way to
Makkah, though it is not permitted for him to enter the vicinity of akHaram with
the intention of hajj or umrah, unless he first observes ihram.


atl tas
How To Perform Hajj
DILL dey ot bad at of OLY! ot ١٥
If a person wishes to perform hajj, then upon him is the following;
po abl fatty, feces sila gy aby co pats sho pat Gey a le patsy oo libl bi oF -١
MIMO gS OF peasy de iy Visas oe adh boyy pa ais Lina' fe ath ١٥! ab
٦ eka ye aul cpa elo dl


١. It is recommended to cut the nails, trim the moustache and shave or cut the
hair. Thereupon one is to perform wudu or the major bath, though the major
bath is best on account that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed this when preparing for hajj. It is then sunna to wear new garments(one of which is the izar), a wrapping around the bottom half of the body and the
other part called the ridah, wrapping it around the top half of the body. And it is
better if both are white and new. A person is also to apply perfume after bathing.
Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf held that it does not matter if the traces of perfume
remain on the body after assuming ihram. However, in the opinion of Imam
Muhammad and Zufar, it is disliked to apply perfume in which traces remain
after ihram has been adopted. This is also the view of Malik and Shafi'i. A'ishah(God be pleased with her)said, "I used to scent Allah's Messenger when he
wanted to assume ihram and also on finishing ihram before the tawaf(al-
Ifadah)."" This clearly indicates that the traces of perfume remained on the body.
What is prohibited with respect to perfume is the use of it after ihram.


«pe aay No peed ctl te dS)Ql: Spd ods ea y rary
One is then to pray two rak'ahs of prayer after which he is to say, "O Allah, I wish
to perform hajj, so case the journey upon me and accept(this hajj)from me." The reason for
this supplication is because hajj contains many actions that involve hardship.
Thus, one requests Allah to lighten the difficulty of the journey. With respect to


the prayer, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))offered two rak'ahs
of prayer at Dhul Hulayfa on wearing the ihram clothes.'


WW th Ve aly WW ely ed)OL Ub YL tL Sp Dd oh od


' Bukhari ١٥٣٩.
* Bukhari ١٥٥٤.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١١


After the prayer, one is to utter the talbiyah(At Your service, O Allah, at Your service.
At Your service, none can be associated with You, at Your service. All Praise and blessing
belongs to You as does the kingdom. None can be associated with You)). It is recommended
to recite the talbiyah audibly while standing, sitting and walking. It is particularly
recommended during every ascent and descent, when mounting and
dismounting.


pl ad de by Shp


Accordingly, when one pronounces the talbiyah intending in his heart, then
indeed he has acquired ihram. Al-Hidayah states one does not legally enter the
state of ihram with the intention alone unless he says the talbiyah. Though Imam
Shafi'i disagreed on this point. The reason according to the Hanafi school is that
the intention is like a pact for performance; therefore, it is necessary to follow it
up with dhikr(remembrance of God).


٦ JIDN ٦S gently Sd ST abe @ > AUS Lab sey -٢
٢. When one has adopted ihram, it is forbidden to engage in; a)obscenity which is
sexual intercourse or amorous talk or the meaning of intercourse, b)sin and
disobedience to God, c)to argue or quarrel with others. God states in the Quran[For hajj are the months well known. If anyone undertakes that duty therein, let


there be no obscenity, nor wickedness, nor wrangling in the hajj, and whatever
good you do,(be sure)Allah knows it]."


aor y shady day oly ale VY HELV Wane fy


Forbidden also is; d)to kill, hunt, to point towards prey or indicate where it is.
Allah said(Forbidden is the pursuit of land-game as long as you are in the sacred
precincts or in pilgrim garb];" and e)to cover the head or face for a male and the
woman must not cover her face, whilst it is obligatory to cover her head. Note:
The female may cover her face with a cloth or rag provided it does not touch her
face, whether it is for a need or not, or for fear of temptation or the like.


crt gb LAS gh Sy pe ol peed oye Ue ob gh hay sho UBT Le gle at ats gl
Le gh lie


It is forbidden, f)to cut the hair or nails, g)to place perfume on the body, h)to
wear stitched clothing, such as shirts, trousers, shoes, or to wear moccasins(boots)and things of the like.


Wig food sh SLIME pl LI toy SLE I ٥ ٩t A


" Bagarah ١٩٧.
? Al-Maida ٩٦.


٤١٢ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


However, it is permissible to perform the major bath with water only because this
would be required in the event of sexual impurity[janaba]. And verily Umar Ibn
al-Khattab performed ghus! whilst in ihram." It is permitted to enter into a wash
room, or take shade under the drapes of the ka'bah or under a canopy, although
Imam Malik said that seeking shade under a tent or what resembles it, is disliked,
because it amounts to covering the head." One may also take shade underneath a
hand held carriage or something of the like.


The marriage contract of a person in ihram is considered valid, though the
consummation of the marriage is forbidden. Imam Shafi'i and other imams held
that even a marriage contract while in the state of ihram is unlawful and the
marriage is invalid.


| Sia aNednnd ٢ yo IN rb lacy ٦ ON pe pee EAS J y> GS ghad c pl DY deh Laat Ss foro ١٣٥ -٣
EAS y ects y(Lane ging gill il gh ym day)pUlazal ٠! ales y « ty Lal, Whee


٣. Tawaf al-Qudum(Arrival)upon arriving in Makkah

When one enters Makkah, he is to begin with Masjid al-Haram and is to make
tawaf around the ka'bah seven times commencing from the black stone. Though
prior to the tawaf, one is to face the black stone, greet it, pronounce the takbir
and tahlil(saying; There is no god except but Allah)during which his hands are raised.
If one is able, he should touch the black stone with his two hands and kiss it(without hurting others and if he cannot, then he is may greet it from a distance).
He is then to make tawaf and when he reaches the black stone again, it is counted
as one and so forth. One is to kiss the black stone every time he passes it in his
tawaf. Note: the floor is marked with a black line to indicate one's alignment with the black
stone to signify when one has completed a circuit. This is known as Tawaf al-Qudum, and
it is sunna. After this, one is to go to the station of Ibrahim and pray two rak'ahs
next to it or where it is possible in the mosque, and this is wajib to perform,
whereas Imam Shafi'i held it as sunna. Additionally, Imam Malik said that this
tawaf is an obligation due to the saying of the Prophet[Whoever comes to the
House is to greet it with a tawaf]. On completion of the two rak'ahs, one is to
return to the black stone and greet if able or at least face it and utter; 'God is
great. There is no god except Allah. Glory be to Allah.'[Allahu akbar, La ilaha
illAllah, Subhan Allah).


The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The hands are not to be
raised except on seven occasions.)and among these, he mentioned the greeting
of the black stone. In addition, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))kissed the black stone upon which he said to Umar[Verily you are a strong built
man, so do not torment people for the black stone].' Thus, no Muslim should be
afflicted with harm in getting to the black stone.


" Muwattah In The Chapter Of Hajj ٦.


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١٣


It is sunna for a man who wishes to perform the sa"iy between the Safa and Marwah afta
tawaf al-Qudum, that he observe idtiba' prior to the tawaf; and ramal in the first thre
circuits, and then walk normally in the remainder. Ramal - In the first three circuits of
tawaf, it is sunna for the men to walk hastily, lifting their legs forcefully, keeping
the chest out, and moving the shoulders simultaneously like a challenger in an
arena. This is accompanied by idfiba' which is the passing of the top sheet under
the right armpit and letting it hang from the left shoulder. This is observed before
the tawaf. One should then walk normally in the four remaining circuits. It is
recommended that in every circuit one should kiss the black stone(if able)and
touch the Yemeni corner as Imam Muhammad held it as Sunna. Ibn Umar
reported that when Allah's Messenger(God bless him and give him peace}performed tawaf in hajj and umrah he walked swiftly in the first three circuits(Ramal)around the house and then walked in the other four circuits and then
observed two rak'ahs of prayer, and then ran between Safa and Marwah.!


BAU LES Leal b> JS ٣ Baie Sly om Lge sed ay AI Lena WI


One is then to proceed towards the Safa and Marwah and move between them
seven times beginning at Safa and ending at Marwah. Therefore, when one arrives
at Safa, he is to climb upon it to such an extent that he will see the ka'bah during
which he is saluting the House, pronouncing the takbir and tahlil, and blessings
upon the Prophet. He is then to raise his hands and make supplications for his
needs. This is based on the report that the Prophet climbed onto the Safa and on
seeing the House turned towards the qibla and made supplications to God).
Following this, one is to descend towards Marwah walking in his normal gait.
When he reaches the centre of the valley, he is to adopt a running gait by way of
sa'ty between the two green pillars. After that, he is to adopt his calm gait until he
reaches Marwah. He is to climb it and perform the same acts that he performed at
Safa. All this constitutes one of the seven circuits to be done between the Safa and
Marwah. Hence, from Safa to Marwah is considered as one circuit and the return
to Safa is considered as the second and so forth until one has completed seven
such circuits.* The first circuit is to begin at Safa due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Begin with what God, the Exalted has


begun].
AD gel in oe BB GN g٣ oe ctl ys py Seal ٦ yz Sf AUS ad Le ey gl od =
Mee ed tt el bl te,


" Muslim ٢٨٩٤.

? Al-Zayla'i vol ٣/٥٣. Al-Hidayah ٣٦٨, Imran Ahsan Khan.
٣ Al Hidayah-Hajj(Al-Ikhtiyar ٢١٠].

* Muslim, Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah, and Malik.


٤١٤ BOoK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


٤. Staying at Mina(٨th of Dhul Hijjah).


After having completed these actions, one is to remain in Makkah until the ٨° of
Dhul-Hijjah known as the day of deliberation. When this day arrives, one is to
depart for Mina after sunrise where he is to spend the night. This is based on the
report that the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)offered the fajr
prayer on the day of deliberation at Makkah, and when the sun had risen he
departed for Mina. In Mina, one will observe the noon prayer, afternoon prayer,
sunset prayer, nightfall prayer and dawn prayer on the next day(٩")for this is
what Jibril performed with Ibrahim and the Prophet. After the dawn prayer, one
departs for Arafah.


CY lat aad dm NN oom pe by Babb go SL ٨b SN ٥٣ ye Get pp CAI ١-٥
cae AL Lan y


٥. Standing at Arafah(* of Dhul-Hijjah)After praying the dawn prayer on the ٩" of Dhul-Hijjah in Mina, one then departs
for Arafah. At Arafah, one is to stand near the mountain of Mercy to listen to the
sermon of the imam and learn the rituals of hajj from him. The time limit for the
standing at Arafah is from midday on the day of Arafah(٩")until the dawn of the
١٠". If one misses this time limit, the hajj is invalid.


The best practice in undertaking this ritual is to stand at Arafah prior to sunset
and remain there until it sets. Imam Malik holds that if a person leaves prior to


sunset and does not return, then his hajj is invalid and he must return the
following year.


Accordingly, when the sun passes over the meridian on the ٩" of Dhul-Hijjah, two
sermons are conducted by the imam. And provided the imam is present, one is to
pray the noon and afternoon prayer combined at midday and one adhan is called
with two iqamas. Note: The entire area of Arafah is considered as a place of
standing except for the valley of Uranah.


During the sermon, the imam instructs the people about the station of Arafah, the
Station at Muzdalifah, the throwing of the stones at the Jimar, the sacrifice, the
shaving of the head and the Tawaf az-Ziyarah. The two sermons are separated as
in the case of the Friday prayer." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Allah Almighty boasts of the people of Arafah on the day of Arafah
saying; Look, My angels at My slaves. They come dishevelled, dusty arriving from
every deep ravine. Bear witness that I have forgiven them. They will return like
the day their mother bore them].


Additionally, Imam Malik held that one is to terminate the uttering of the
talbivah as soon as he adopts the post at Arafah because responding with speech
occurs prior to carrying out the pillars. The Hanafis on the other hand rely on the





" AlHidayah ٣٧٠


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١٥


report that the Prophet continued to say the talbiyah until he reached Jamrah al-
'Aqabah and the reason according to Al-Hidayah is that the talbiyah is like takbir
in prayer, and therefore, he is to say it until the last rite of his ihram.


Ups SLE Ao Sl ed to os Nabe


After sunset at Arafah, the people depart for Muzdalifah where they will spend
the night. Imam Shafi'i held that one is to stay until midnight at Muzdalifah
whereas Malik held that one must stay for as long as it takes to kneel a camel and
then stand it back up. Note: the maghrib prayer is not to be performed at Arafah,
but it is to be performed at Muzdalifah, combined with the 'isha prayer at the
'isha time, and both prayers are observed with only one adhan and one iqama. If a
person observes the maghrib prayer on the way to Muzdalifah, it is not valid
according to Abu-Hanifa and Muhammad. Additionally, the congregation is not
stipulated for these two combined prayers according to Abu Hanifa because
maghrib has been delayed beyond its time in contrast to the combining at Arafah
where the 'asr was brought forward prior to its time."(Mad by ٢ AG ily oS pala a fry — BN SS oye LM ٦ ys gay — pull SSIS ٣B ٦


٦ - When the Nahr day arrives which is the ١٠° of Dhul-Hijjah, one is to pray the
dawn prayer at the earliest part of the dawn, i.e. while it is very dark, not during
the twilight. After this, one is to stand at Muzdalifah even for a moment. During
this stand, strong supplication should be made. It is recommended to stand after
the dawn prayer with the imam and supplicate. Allah said[Celebrate the Praises
of Allah at the Sacred monument].' The entire area of Muzdalifah is regarded as a
place of standing except the valley of Mahsar as the Prophet(God bless him and
grant him peace)mentioned.


The time of the standing at Muzdalifah is from the arrival of true dawn(١٠" of
Dhul-Hijjah - the Day of Sacrifice)until the day has grown considerably bright. If
one were to neglect this standing without a valid excuse, he would be liable for
sacrifice[ddm]. Imam Shafi'i held it as a pillar on the basis of the words of Allah[Then when you pour down from Arafah, celebrate the praises of God at the
Sacred Monuments].*


Cece pds Blea JS ae pSy cb bar pn dalla ged etl f gle LS ne Sf at oS
ot gt JS)fo JB AS US Jd IS fail GUNG ٦ ٠ pas she pat Gt pS col Of okt


" Al-Hidayah ٣٧٦.
? Al-Bagarah ١٩٨.
٥ Quran ٢-١٩٨.


٤١٦ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


One then departs for Mina before sunrise. At Mina, he is to throw seven pebbles
at Jamrah al-Aqabah and is to pronounce the takbir with each pebble thrown.
After the throwing of the first stone, one ceases to recite the talbiyah. Jabir((God
be pleased with him))reported that the Prophet(God bless him and give him
peace)ceased the talbiyah upon the first throw and said, 'Allahu akbar with every
throw, upon which he slaughtered and shaved his head and then proceeded
towards Makkah to perform tawaf in the house. /f one throws the stone and it falls close
to the Jamrah, it is valid. If the stone drops far away from the jamrah, it is invalid. If one
throws all seven at once, then it is counted as one time." Also, with respect to the pebbles,
it is recommended to gather them from Muzdalifah or from the road of Mina. It
is disliked to gather the stones from those which lay at the jamrahs. Following
this, one may sacrifice if he wishes and then shave or cut his hair, though shaving
is best as mentioned by the Prophet earlier((God bless him and give him peace)).
When one has performed all these actions, everything becomes lawful except
women(sexual intercourse). Imam Malik excludes perfume as well, since it is one
of the things that leads to sexual intercourse. We rely on the words of the Prophet[Everything is lawful for him except women]."


Calan LO ٦ cole Sol ٦ gold gab alacans dNfb e Ua}acl egy nti SAM So pe pt °٧


٧. Tawaf az-Ziyarah(known also as Tawaf al-Ifadah)Thereafter, one is to return to Makkah on the same day to perform tawaf
provided he is able(i.e. on the ١٠° Dhul-Hijjah which is the Nahr day). If one is
unable, then he is to return on the next day(١١")or on the day after that(١٢)for
the time of tawaf is for the three days of sacrifice(Nahr)though the first day is
best. However, one is not to delay the tawaf beyond this. Its appointed time
however is the day of Sacrifice(Nahr)on the basis that Allah mentioned the tawaf
in conjunction with the slaughter. Allah the Exalted said[And eat thereof]and
then said[And perform the tawaf around the House].'


Hence, there are four actions that are performed on the ١٠" and they are: i)the
stoning, ii)slaughtering, iii)shaving the hair and iv)tawaf al-Ifadah. Abu Hanifa
held it necessary to perform the acts in order. If one advances the slaughtering
over the stoning or the shaving over the stoning, then one must sacrifice an
animal on the basis that Ibn Mas'ud said, "Whoever advances a ritual over a
ritual must sacrifice.""* In addition, when three of these four acts have been
performed, one is released from his ihram, though he must first perform the tawaf
before having sexual intercourse.


" Al-Hidayah.

٢ Abu Dawud.

* Quran ٢٢:٢٩.

" Figh al-Islam, Ibrahim al-Silkini ٥١٨.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١٧(Leash obj ah pb pan ٩ eS y gay ٦ LUV Gl gb ya bing)bith in OSL lb iy jb bp


When one arrives in Makkah, he is to observe tawaf in the House seven times,
and this is known as Tawaf al-Jfadah and it is a pillar. This tawaf is also called
Tawoaf az-Ziyarah, The basis is the report that the Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))after he had his head shaved, departed for Makkah, and performed
the tawaf of the House. Thereafter, he returned to Mina and offered the noon
prayer at Mina.(Note: If a person performed his sa'ty after tawaf al-Qudum[arrival],
he does not have to do ramal in the first three circuits of tawaf az-Ziyarah. But if
one did not do sa'y after tawaf al-Qudum, then he is to observe ramal in this tawaf(i.e. tawaf az-Ziyarah)followed by sa 'ty after it]. The performance of this tawaf after
these three days is disliked. And if one delays it beyond these three days, he
becomes liable for atonement through sacrifice[dém]according to Abu Hanifa."


Ld > oct ISS fm il pall Lin GU cay
After completion of this tawaf, everything becomes lawful even women(i.e. sexual


intercourse with one's partner).
be LS tN oy ٣ I ra Bb Milby pele yp ٥ AS Sd JE IS ٥B -٨


٨. Spending the night in Mina and the stoning
of the Jamrahs on ١١" and ١٢° of Dhul-Hijjah


If a person had travelled to Makkah to offer Tawaf az-Ziyarah on the day of Nahr(١٠ of Dhul Hijjah), then he is to return to Mina on the same day and reside
there. It is disliked to spend the night anywhere else other than Mina during the
days of Mina.


BDL Lig g blame Be NS gp Sly May SHI ot atl oy pte gall py ols ١٣[٣ -٩
| EanNN ٥ yal ٦ Updo od cdma Bal


٩. On the ١١" of Dhul-Hijjah, one is to stone the three sites after midday. He is to
throw seven pebbles at each site. And he is to begin with the site(closest to the
Khayf mosque), throwing seven pebbles, saying "Allahu akbar" with each pebble
thrown. He then throws pebbles at the site after that(which is the middle Jamrah)repeating the same actions as the first and then the last site termed al-Aqabah(repeating the actions of the previous sites). Note: between the stoning of each site
one is to remain there momentarily during which he faces the qibla and recites
the takbir, praises Allah, and sends blessings and salams upon our Holy Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)during which one supplicates to Allah what
he wishes. The hands are raised for this supplication. This is based on the words
of Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)who said, "The hands are not to
be raised except on seven occasions," and among them he mentions the occasions
near the two Jamrahs. Thus, all three Jamrahs are each stoned seven times during which
takbir is uttered upon each throw; and supplication is made at the first two sites.


" Al-Hidayah ٣٨٢.


٤١٨ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


Am gfe Wainy pte Golde gI GG fad le fro fade te GU ¢ JI Uls ١٣٥ -١٠


١٠. On the ١٢" of DhulHijjah, one is to repeat the actions he performed on the
١١". That is, one is to stone all three sites as he did the previous day. And upon
this, hajj is complete.'


If however, a person remains at Mina overnight on the ١٢" of Dhul-Hijjah, then
he must repeat the stoning of all three Jamrahs on the ١٣° of Dhul-Hijjah as was
performed on the ١٢" and ١١". If on the other hand, one quickly leaves for
Makkah before nightfall on the ١٢", then he does not have to repeat the stoning
on the ١٣° of Dhul-Hijjah. Imam Shafi'i held that after the sun sets on the ١٢"(i.e.
the third day of sacrifice)it is not lawful to depart until one has repeated the
stoning on the fourth day(١٣ Dhul-Hijjah).


Abdullah Ibn Umar(God be pleased with him)said, "For whoever the sun sets
during the middle days of Tashriq(١٢")while he is in Mina he must not leave
until he has stoned the pillars(Jamrahs)on the following day))." Imam
Muhammad said: We adhere to this and it is the verdict of Abu Hanifa and our
fuqaha in general.


Leaving for Makkah


On the way to Makkah, it is recommended to stop for a time at al-Abtah between
Mina and Makkah because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))camped there.


Sl gb Leash tii ie ayy)bi pth de reall il gb CL Gi ghd I oye gS -H(eB her ly Gogtall Gt pball gay o gall ٢١ at pb yc Flo oll


١١. Tawaf al-Wada'(known also as T. awaf as.Sadr-Farewell)Thereafter, one is to return to Makkah and perform Tawaf asSadr in the House
making seven circuits. This tawaf is the last of the actions of hajj and it is the
tawaf that is deemed a wajib element of hajj. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[If someone observes hajj to the house, the last of his
business with the House is tawaf]. This tawaf is not wajib for the people of
Makkah because they do not leave it or bid it farewell. There is no ramal in this
tawaf. After completion of the farewell tawaf, one is to go to the Zamzam and
drink some of its water while standing, pouring some of it over the head and face,
Thereafter one may go to al-Multazam, which is between the black stone and the
door, placing the chest and face against it and ask Allah for whatever one wishes.


! : bs bs
The meaning here is that the actions of hajj are complete even though one is still
required to perform the farewell tawaf as the last of his actions.


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤]Summary - Hajj begins on the &* of Dhul-Hijjah


١. Observe thram from the migat(specified sites)٢. Arrive at Makkah and perform Tawaf al-Qudum(sunna)starting from the black stone.
Two rak 'ahs of prayer at the place of Ibrahim and thereafter go between the Safa and
Marwah seven times

٣. On the &* of Dhul-Hijjah one travels to, and resides at Mina observing dhuhr, 'asr,
maghrib, 'isha, and the fajr of the next morning.

٤. On the # of Dhul-Hijjah, one progresses to Arafah where he pauses and listens to the
talk of the imam. If the imam is present, combine dhuhr and 'asr at noon time with one
adhan and two igamas. One is to remain here until sunset

٥. After sunset, proceed to Muzdalifah and combine maghrib and 'isha prayer with one
adhan and one igama. On the ١٠" Dhul-Hijjah in Muzdalifah one is to stand at
Muzdalifah after the dawn.

٦. Thereafter go to Mina and stone only Jamrah al-Aqabah seven times. Then sacrifice and
shave the hair(but no sexual intercourse).

٧. If able on the ١٠%, return to Makkah and observe the Tawaf az-Ziyarah(Ifadah)which
is a pillar, seven circuits. Then return to Mina.


٨. ١١° and ١٢%, stone the three sites on each day.
٩. Return to Makkah and perform Tawaf as-Sadr(wada'farewell)which is wajib.





٤٢٠ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


There Are Three Types Of Hajj One Can Perform. They are as follows:


١- Qiran - This type of hajj consists of forming an intention for both umrah and hajj together,
with only one ihram from the thram sites(mawagit). The clothing of ihram in this type
is not to be taken off until Eid and it is compulsory to sacrifice during this type of
hajj. This is what the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed.
For this type of hajj, one is to perform two sets of sa'iy, once for umrah and the
other for hajj; and one is required to sacrifice out of gratitude.


٢- Tamattu' - Is when umrah and hajj are performed separately. Though both are
performed in the time of hajj. This hajj includes ihram for umrah first. After
completing the umrah, one can remove the clothes of ihram until the day of
deliberation(٨"). Thereafter one observes ihram for hajj during its time, though
both the umrah and hajj are performed in the months of hajj. The person performing
tamattu' must sacrifice out of gratitude.

٣- Ifrad - This type of hajj consists of performing only hajj during the days of hajj. The
clothing of ihram cannot be removed until hajj is complete.


٢,
oe


°
~
°,
oo


UMRAH
The Meani Umrah(Cae gaat SLail ola ot J ail ٢٣٩٤ ٥))et poy e dell fo Aad ٣ pall ples


Linguistically, umrah means obedience. Its legal meaning is — to visit the House
of Allah, AF}Haram to perform specific actions.


٨ yonll oS
The Ruling Of Umrah
«Karly lel olde amy ene ye all G eel fo ٢٥ po hd paslly


Umrah is an established sunna according to the most evident view in the
Madhhab. Though some scholars maintain that the correct view is that it is
necessary[wajid}.
ee c٣٥ & peal i
Is There A Specified Time For Umrah?
rel]Lae gad ٠ Sy EN OLD ae bps ٥ pred AIS Let eae Ci yi pel! Is


Legally, there is no specified time to perform umrah; therefore, it is permitted
anytime throughout the year. Although, it is disliked to perform umrah during
five days;


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٢١


Oban, GUgbd Sey BIS Ge AS lly e pulleys ٦ Bey


The day of Arafah and the day of Nahr(١٠° Dhul-Hijjah)as well as the three days
of Tashriq(١١", ١٢ and ١٣° Dhul-Hijjah)and the reason being is due to the
congestion of the people performing hajj. It is however recommended to perform
umrah during Ramadan.


Saale,
The Pillar Of Umrah
a St gl bi cha Cy Sl bil Bell ٥٥٥٥


The pillar of umrah is to make tawaf around the House seven times or the
majority of these seven.


The Wajib Elements Of Umrah
; pais fl aay cds Aly Lavall ny rm! LAa>l : OlLolys aay
There are two necessary acts of umrah


i)The running between the Safa and Marwah(sa ty)ii)The shaving or cutting of the hair.


ipl by
The Conditions Required For Umrah
ct phy Balls Ol YW te OWS opr g ٦ JO ope be ped Se GUS oad Fol > Wo poe b pty
ee lie op lee ol GUY al


The condition for umrah is to adopt the ihram. If a person is a resident in
Makkah, then he is to adopt ihram from the area of al-Hill(this is an area outside
the Haram). And if one lives in a distant region and intends to perform umrah,
then he is to observe ihram from one of the designated sites for haijj.


٣ al! Las
How To Perform Umrah
٨ yall das]Gl gl : Spi ede etd Gel ٥٣. Le yo fe Wala y oF jay of OLS! ot i١٣١
whe ele ge lagi ٦ gly oo ٦ ce hay Be


If a person wishes to perform umrah, he is to remove his normal clothes and
cleanse himself as was previously mentioned for hajj(such as the major bath).


٤٢٢ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


Thereafter he is to utter: 'O Allah, verily I wish to perform umrah, so make easy the
journey and accept it for me' — after which he is to say the talbiyah. This is the ihram
for Umrah. The talbiyah is:[At Your service, O Allah, at Your service. At Your
service, none can be associated with You, at Your service. All Praise and Blessing
belongs to You as does the kingdom. None can be associated with You].


Sad NI ٠ pad gloat She el ys eee bg My Leal oy gree od od Gb Joo ١٣)pee OS as AU


When one enters Makkah, he is to observe tawaf of the ka'bah, which is seven
circuits. After this, he is to go between the Safa and Marwah seven times(say).
Thereafter, he is to shave his head or cut his hair. When a person does this, his
umrah is complete.


Hajj Otran


ol wl sor
The Meani: Hajj Otran


ATS! AUD)pL Wl oeaSy Bee dey sib Beds tl oy el YI G aod ol ye: OL all


«gl oh Cpe eben ILA ph ably al
Qiran is to combine both hajj and umrah with the one thram. After praying the two
rak'ahs of ihram, one is to say,[O Allah, verily I wish to perform umrah and hajj, so
make easy the journey and accept these actions from me}. Following this, he is to
pronounce the talbiyah as mentioned earlier for umrah and hajj. On completion of
these actions, one has acquired ihram.


ON pS


The Ruling Of Qiran
: Cpluasie eilal oss Lad> ٥s ee)elol crass olm ٤ om elal or jail Ol wt


Qiran is superior than performing hajj alone, and superior than performing
umrah alone. Qiran is also superior than performing tamattu'(which is to
perform both umrah and hajj - though at separate intervals). Imam Shafi'i held
that the Ifrad form of hajj is superior.' Imam Malik held that tamattu' is better
than giran. Imam Shafi'i relies upon the hadith that the Prophet said, "Qiran is a
rukhsah(exemption)," and maintains that there are additional requirements in
the Ifrad form such as talbiyah, journey and shaving and is therefore superior.
The Hanafis rely on the words of the Prophet, "O family of Muhammad,
pronounce the tahlil of performing hajj and umrah together."


" The Ifrad form of hajj is when one performs hajj alone in the time of hajj.
" Al-Hidayah.


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٢٣


ol al aes
How To Perform Qiran
cl tl as pall Gil phe[ay ٢% OW fo ١٣


When the person performing qiran enters Makkah, he is to begin by making
tawaf for umrah which is seven circuits(around the House), during which there is
ramal in the first three circuits.


CN gh ٠S)furs ot


He is then to pray two rak'ahs after the tawaf, because each tawaf is followed with
two rak'ahs whether the tawaf is obligatory or optional.


«٨ esl Sed ٥ Way bith em lates eed By My Lica UI CF ٠


Upon this, one is to proceed to Safa and Marwah and move between them seven
times[say]. And with this, the actions of umrah are complete. Note: one is not to
shave his head in between the umrah and the hajj because this is a violation of the
ihram of hajj. He is to shave on the Day of Sacrifice just as the person in the Ifrad
form does.


Wa Sd Some Il bt Sed G pan de Qe ٦ sad Gl gb ay i glad ol SI I I aU Ck ٦


He then commences the acts of hajj by going back to al-Haram a second time and
performs Tawaf al-Qudum for hajj around the ka'bah. Then, he is to continue the
actions of hajj as mentioned earlier.


presi fe
The Sacrifice Of Gratitude


Sacrifices are to be made on the Days of Sacrifice(١٠-١٢"" Dhul-Hijjah)and are to
take place in the area of Haram.


Nye ba SU SY sl call oo BLE ey Of ade Gey pull py Saas ٢ OW ٤)BY
- ace lb Jolin ys partly abl ela addy Ol fe Slav di! St. GL
After a person stones Jamrah al-Agabah on the ١٠" of Dhul-Hijjah, it is wajib upon
him to slaughter a sheep, or adopt a share between seven people in slaughtering a
cow or camel(the share being ١/٧). This sacrifice is one of thanksgiving to Allah,


the Glorified and Exalted for enabling him to perform hajj and umrah and
enabling him to the obedience of Allah.


٤٢٤ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


ct Pe Fe pa ee BE: LTS te ٦ py Oe Gye GAL shoe ds de JIB
«jhe a pice Ugals hy Kay Sy bl Sled ope Pl all dey tee ye atl ga


If there is no animal available to sacrifice or one does not have the funds to buy
an animal to sacrifice, then it is necessary to fast ten days. Three of these days are
to be fasted before the ١٠" of Dhul-Hijjah and a further seven days after
completing the actions of hajj. These seven days may be fasted in Makkah
intermittently; meaning, they do not have to be seven continuous days of fasting,
they may be separated apart. This rule is due to the words of Allah[For a person
who does not find an animal there is fasting of three days and seven when he
returns. These are ten complete days].


Imam Shafi'i held that people are to fast the seven days after they have returned
to their families and that it is not permitted before it, and he used as his basis the
words of Allah[He should fast three days during hajj and seven days on his
return, making ten days in all]." However, other scholars of Quranic
interpretation maintained that 'return' refers to the completion of hajj. In addition,
it is recommended for one to eat from the sacrificial meat according to Imam Abu
Hanifa.


Tamattu'


The description of this form is that the worshipper begins from the miqat sites
during the time of hajj. He is to adopt the ihram for umrah and then enter
Makkah. He is to perform the tawaf(ith ramal), go between Safa and Marwah
and shave or cut his hair. He is then to release himself from the state of ihram. On
the day of Tarwiyah(deliberation—٨th), he is to wear the ihram of hajj from the
Haram and perform haijj.'


a aN gas
The Meaning of Tamattu'


ISB AN Olas G SUE oy Late yal p ٦ OT Le ٢ yay cb Ally GEV: AUIS cal


athe al si i Ulel al
Linguistically, tamattu' means comfort and luxury. Legally, tamattu' means: To
observe ihram solely for umrah from the designated sites in the times of hajj, and
upon completion of its actions or the majority, one is to observe ihram for hajj. As
previously mentioned this type of hajj is when umrah and hajj are performed
separately, but both are performed during the time of hajj.





Al-Bagarah ١٩٦.
P Al-Hidayah.


Book VI: Haj}AND UMRAH ٤٢s


Cal pS
The Ruling Of Tamattu'
: ON AI O٩٢ yy ¢ atm y ٥ peal olal cps fail y corey abl elol oye fail aces
Tamattu' is deemed superior than performing hajj by itself. It is also superior to
performing umrah alone. However, qiran is deemed superior than tamattu'.


Nl LAS
How To Perform Tamattu'
Sa ab pall aa til QUID)٦h AY FAS)Bee dey Syd OUEM oe ٨ pale tol das,
wai gb J gh abl bat ٩ Ub glad Se fry > gche ٠(Cu Uphitiy

The one observing tamattu' is to begin by adopting ihram from the migat(designated sites). Following this, he is to pray the two rak'ahs of ihram after
which he says[O Allah, verily I intend to perform Umrah, so make easy the journey upon me
and accept this act from me}. Thereafter, he is to pronounce the talbiyah until he
arrives at Makkah where he is to observe the tawaf for umrah and is to cease the


talbiyah when he commences the first circuit. Imam Malik held that one is to
cease the talbiyah when he sees the House because umrah is a visit to the House.


con pay gh and, Ge aoe dl pth dae dy My call oy ee SN yb oaS)fees ٦


Thereafter, he is to pray the two rak'ahs of tawaf and then go between the Safa
and Marwah seven times. He is then to shave or cut his hair. It is necessary that
one shave his head in order to be released from ihram.


. Ll > epg IS fos Ye phe Wa fos os


Upon completion of these actions, all things become lawful even women(sexual
intercourse). Meaning one is thereby released from his ihram. Note; al-Hidayah
states that the cause of being released from one's ihram is the shaving of the head,
as is the case with the final salams with respect to prayer.


Sel saga ee bl ce abl pal(Ga lS Sy Bl eye penny)Sbl ٥٣ op ple» el> lai


tele Ge(ol


Then on the ٨° of DhulHijjah termed the Day of Deliberation, one is to adopt
ihram for hajj from the Haram area(the sacred area of Makkah)and carry out its
actions as previously mentioned. Note: It is called the Day of Deliberation
because after Ibrahim(upon him be peace)had seen the vision to slaughter his
son, he remained patiently to establish the reality of the vision, that the vision was
not from Satan the accursed.


" Al-Hidayah.


٤٢٦ BooK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


poi e
The Sacrifice Of Gratitude
BU gh ٥ Bay GL SAE of al po LE ad ed pulley Callie gt)bf


After a person stones Jamrah al-Agabah on the day of sacrifice(١٠° Dhul Hijjah), it
is wajib upon him to sacrifice a sheep, or take a share in a group of seven in
sacrificing a cow or camel(the share being ١/٧).


COB OSHA GU S٣[Se ary Bl dame pollo yet Jo ell SH plo ug J obs


If one does not have the means to sacrifice, then he must fast three days prior to
the day of sacrifice(١٠° Dhul Hijjah)and seven days upon his return as
mentioned earlier in the ruling of giran.


Bae Vy ٩ ٠ ٨٥٢ Vy LE eb abe Cad pallie yy ele > BH ALY pay ١


If however, one does not fast three days prior to the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah, then he is
required to sacrifice a sheep, for no fast or charity will suffice unless it be the


sacrifice of a sheep.
Offences
eh Yt fe ats
Violations While In Ikram
٤٤١ @Lsl
Types Of Violations
oe Bl fe bbe ys pla Yl aid eo be: pend Sl nts SLA
The violations are divided into two types;


١. Violating the restrictions of Ihram, such as intercourse while in the state
of ihram.


٢. Violating the sanctity of the Haram(i.e. the Sacred area of Makkah)such
as hunting in this area.
|- Violating the restrictions of ihram is divided into four sections,
i)The first part requires the sacrificing of an animal to atone for the violation, ii)the second requires the giving of sadaqah(charity), iii)the third requires one to


pay less than the above sadaqah, iv)the fourth requires one to pay the value in
cash or other, as shall be explained.


$ plot
When The Sacrifice Of An Animal Is Wayib
wo yon y cary opal gh eeling aud uae gle tlael rl ae Cob bi po MU ٦ pall de Ve
Bohy ple Sache yy uty UBI ad gh aed, ry Ge she eS Ly ed te sh Uae OS gh
Go led abe SI lel oe Lely ٣٥ gh gy slab ٥h


If a mature person in the state of ihram performs any of the following acts, then
he is required to sacrifice an animal to atone for the violation. The violations are;
a)to perfume a member(or limb)of one's body. The limb is like the head, calf,
thigh and what is similar; b)or he dyes his hair with hair dye, c)or rubs oil or
something similar on his body, d)or wears stitched clothes for a complete day, e)or covers his head for a complete day, f)or shaves a fourth of his head, g)or he
cuts the nails of his hands and feet in the same sitting, h)or cuts all the nails of
one hand, i)or neglects a necessary(wajib)element. The reason sacrifice is
necessary in all these cases is because there is clear prevention from the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))on such matters.


When Is Sadagah Required?
he hp ge ce Joni fee gh Uae od she pe oy GI Ob lite all de Sri Z,
laaty Vib ad she mels ary ge fil


One is required to pay sadaqah if he, a)perfumes less than a limb, b)wears
stitched clothes for less than a day, c)covers the face for less than a day, d)covers
the head for less than a day, e)shaves less than a fourth(quarter)of his head, f)or
cuts only one nail. The reason sadaqah is required in these cases and not sacrifice
is due to the deficiency of the offence.


«NAL Gael ope Blam ٥ gh paral Gi gb pe byt Ns he Vases ead ol p yaa Gb JI
Bare bl cael ٧ slar[Ny ptrall gb cp bys IS,


If one performs Tawaf al-Qudum or Tawaf as-Sadr in a state of minor impurity, or
neglects a circuit from Tawaf asSadr or leaves out a pebble from one of the three
sites, then he is liable for sadaqah. And for every circuit of Tawaf asSadr and for
each pebble which is neglected, a sadaqah is to be paid.


ad gh pcp Cle ai Soe toly JS ٣٦ x F A Lally


٤٢٨ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The sadagah that one must give for each offence mentioned is half a measure[sa]of wheat or its value in cash.


Giallo PW As
When Less Than The Above Sadagah Is Required
OLS ly Sues Jad ٣b dato gh Wed LI p pall J ١٥]Grol » PM OSy


If a mature person in the state of ihram kills a louse or locust, then it is necessary
for him to give sadaqah of whatever amount he wishes.


idl oF
When Is One Required To Pay The Value?
SIN ye pF Ge oped Cad AIS Of Jue yd etl angi Ly ne AIL ٦ all ٥ ١٣)ai pad JS)and ol all Le ae)yyy Lela ٦ pty OI oy ٤ Gary ¢ ANG owes cul
Lege add JS plab ٦ ¢ pas TI mss ٢ on le


If a mature person in the state of ihram kills or hunts on the land, then the animal
killed is evaluated by two upright people and if the assessment amounts to an
offering, then one has the option between, i)purchasing an offering and
slaughtering it in the Haram area and then give it as sadaqah to the poor, or ii)one may purchase food(equal to the value of an offering)and distribute this
amount amongst the poor, giving each person half a measure[sa']of wheat or iii)one has the option of fasting one day instead of feeding each poor person(half a
sa'). This means that the animal killed is evaluated in terms of food. And if for
example the animal evaluated amounts to the feeding of ten people, then
normally, they are to be given half a sa' each, though one has the option of fasting
one day for each half sa'


ISAM godt Le p pal y plabl elo oy AF Soe oped CO peal dewalt dot Als d ols


And if the animal killed does not amount to the value of an offering, then one has
the option of buying meals for the poor(according to the value of the kill)or
fasting according to the method described above.


HL PEs» Ms gh Loge sity pie US oho b PL de gh LIS JS lp all dee ty
des peed Le gh Blin.


There is no obligation if a person in the state of ihram kills a crow, scorpion,
mouse, rabid dog, mosquito, ants, flees, ticks, turtles or what cannot be hunted or
gamed. It is lawful for a person in the state of ihram to kill harmful animals,
whether it is in the Haram or outside of the Haram area.


bial
Hadyi(Sacrifice / Offering)Gal gas
The Meaning Of Hadyi(Offering)al ce Al SN Stee bye! Gl
The hadyi is a sheep that is offered to the poor in the Haram.
Sal ¢! sil
The Types Of Offering
GALE PY pe OS OL y «Dee abe tte[ad pal oye OIS Of He oe ral oy SLE al,
The sacrifice of a sheep must be at least one year of age. If the offering is a cow,
the minimum age is two years old. If the offering is a camel, the minimum age is
five years old. The offering is of three kinds: camels, cows and sheep. The basis is


that when the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))deemed a goat to be
the least form of an offering, then it is necessary that the best be cows and camels,


ad ٦٦ ٥F Vey lil asters jel
A Sheep Suffices For What Violation
dB ss gh gl tay pale gle Lee ٣٥ Sl gb Glb Ba]VY}cect JS des st itll» SLI,
GL hie Sy ade ٤ QUI sla ie paw gl gle ol fy
The sheep suffices for all violations except if one performs Tawaf az-Ztyarah(a
pillar of hajj)in the state of sexual impurity[janaba], or indulges in sexual
intercourse after the standing of Arafah prior to the shaving or cutting of the hair


in which case it becomes necessary to sacrifice either a cow or camel in both
situations.


idl by


Conditions Of The Offering(Hadyi)LA Sy ٩ ١٩ oF lee OS OI sad GL VS
It is a necessary requirement for the sacrificial animal to be free from defect,
limping, and others factors resembling these.


٤٣٠ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The Time Of Slaughtering The Offering


se aA O٥٩ I ld LA ae ONS Oy BHM al bl ca sh ON gadl Ol O}gal wd iy


The time of slaughtering the offering for the qiran form of hajj or the tamattu'
form is the three days of Nahr(١٠°, ١١" and ١٢" Dhul-Hijjah). As previously
mentioned, the one performing qiran or tamattu' is required to sacrifice, and
these are the days he is to sacrifice his offering. If one is slaughtering for other
than these reasons(such as for a violation or omission); then legally, there is no
specified time for the sacrifice.


Gaal oe OlX


The Place Of Slaughtering The Offering
Saris ¢ glad cde IS IBY Vdc cas part Vy cp dd OLS ge gh gal ed ley
ale Go pcs ٥ bill


The place for slaughtering any offering is the Sacred area al-Haram. And one
must not specify the slaughtering to Mina, unless the offering is a voluntarily one
or the offering suffers an injury during the journey, in which case it may be
slaughtered in its place. If the offering is a voluntary one, then it is sunna to
slaughter it in Mina during the days of Nahr as the Prophet(God bless him and
give him peace)did, otherwise it is in al-Haram. Hence, the place of slaughtering
the offering is Makkah due to the words of Allah[An offering that reaches the
ka'bah]," unless the offering is a voluntary one.


>, .% .°%,
"e "~~ ~


Quran ٥.٩٥.


PAS, all le EL;
Visiting The Prophet(pbuh)DAN ٨ yhe٥ pS
The Ruling Of Visiting Graves
BIL}pl Kacy CAS))ahh S pee y SU Ii y a La ole Wy BLEW c ple my ٥ gl BL٥ -١(Clog ٩٥٣ yy


١- Visiting the graves of the dead from a general point of view is to take lesson or
heed from, and to supplicate for the deceased. It is a sunna practice to visit the
graves due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[I would have prevented you from visiting graves, but you may now visit
them]." Al-Tirmidhi added to the above: for it reminds one about the hereafter.
Ibn Majah also added from Ibn Mas'ud: and it makes one overlook the worldly
pleasures.


sory tele L٥G GAN yb wclorss oll SLED pyr)ale rey dil ol le SU,
ACL canig tale ple Sly Wail paige yy Jal Ke pH: Ul

The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[Visit the graves, for

verily you will remember death]and it has been narrated that the Prophet((God

bless him and grant him peace))passed by the graves of Madina and turned his


face towards them and said[Peace be upon you, O residents of the graves. May
Allah forgive us and you. You have preceded us and we are following].


cep ade SL I lett, ٥ sla BLTV Op «Lt GST eA alte ab jy -٢


٢- Visiting the tomb of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))is more
significant(and emphasized)in the sunna because the lesson realised from his
passing is stronger and the supplications of blessings for him is required. Note;
this means that visiting the graves of the dead is deemed sunna and visiting the
tomb of the Prophet is more significant.


Jone BH SI Se Ss Y))SLE Gp Bad de SE gl odes bt Sle iy
The tomb of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))is located in his
Mosque, the one he mentioned in great importance saying[Do not tighten the


straps except to three masjids; my Masjid, the Masjid al-Haram(Makkah), and
Masjid al-Aqsah(Jerusalem).


١ ;
Muslim.


٤٣٢ Book VI: Haj}AND UMRAH


The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[One prayer in this
masjid of mine is better than a thousand prayers in any other masjid except the
sacred masjid, Masjid al-Haram].


AC Gla ١٨d ٥ yj dy > ٤)PHESLy Bal ale SU sy
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whoever made hajj and
does not visit me, has turned away from me].


The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[If anyone comes to
visit me for no other reason except visiting me, it is a duty for me to be his
intercessor on the day of Rising]." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[If anyone makes hajj and visits my grave after my death, it is like he
visited me while I was alive]."


IBN By OS Nye SLIDE So yde eh oly pil yyy eo yl sb de I I IL, - ٣
Lane Ls]US Sfp Lathe ٢S ١٣١)gy ٠٩S Ty aL ٥ are Lae Wel GUS Of Lt
; ade ony ail ol ple oa jb٥ ve


٣ Correct behaviour.


Indeed if the law has ordered one who visits a grave to adhere to the boundaries
of the Sacred law during his visit, and to be serious, tranquil and fearful, then this
is more required during the visit of the Prophet's tomb, in that one be more
serious, tranquil and in a higher state of fear(from the punishment of Allah)for
without doubt, this requirement is stronger when visiting the tomb of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)).


٠٣٩٥)heb S pe Sade Sad Ta pally bb la ٥٥ ll day abe al ops ol ee y ٤
bel y arrest fe y ale ail fo


+ It is sunna for a person who Allah has bestowed His Blessing upon by assisting
him to perform hajj and umrah, that he travel to the Madina of the Messenger to
visit him[may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family and
Companions].


pred y ٦ cell pl from metas Gao gam Lejch Late Citi Ga NN allel od eT je ١afi
AN pe ale ail le V٥ yo cal op aol de faa Val oyy aide ale Sal!





" Darqutani and Tabarani in al-Awsat.
? Darqutani, Tabarani, and al-Baihaqi.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٣٣


When a person is standing in front of the pure and honoured tomb of the
Messenger of Allah, he is to pause for a moment in obedience and fear, adhering
to the boundaries of etiquette, taking hold of the rope of this firm religion and
send salutations upon the Prophet in abundance as the Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))said[There is not a person that sends salutations upon me,
except that Allah returns my spirit and I return the salam]." The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))also said[No one sends salutations upon me
from my nation, except that Allah sends him ten salams]and for this reason,
salutation is to be made in abundance.


U٣ Sy sil ply Dall ade a٥ BL)SLs el hee a I GL de pe ol AS al at JL
what ٧b etl ye le MN fe peg so phe(٦ Bly Ah de. rat iy Sell eri oly


We ask Allah, the Most High and Great to give us the ability and aid needed to

perform pilgrimage to His House 'al-Haram' and to visit the tomb of His blessed

Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)), for verily it is only with the

permission of Allah that one is able to perform this.

IPT cul Le))SEN WS eller Sil(Ce ball is))Os -! aA shy SW dil dome - ٥ ٥,
» Alda, ale Lets Oly ٦ V ycis aba Oty ce ate OF Jy pl Sls city(CLAY!


Indeed, with the assistance of God and all praise be to Him, the book 'Hidetul
Fattah' is finalised and arranged at the end of the book 'Sabil al-Falah', which is
the explanation of Nur al-Idah. We ask Allah to allow this to be a means of
benefit and accept it and reward us with His mercy and generosity.


O, o% o%
"° "٩ "eo


" Ahmad, Abu Dawud, and al-Baihagi with a sound chain.


٤٣٤ Book VI: HAJ)AND UMRAH
Visiting the Tomb of the Prophet


The following is a translation from Maraky al-Falah, the explanation
of Nur al-Idah, by Hasan Shurunbulali."


Visiting the tomb of the Prophet is from the most superior of acts and the best of
the recommendations, for indeed the Prophet prompted the visit and announced
its recommendation of it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[He who finds time and did not visit me has turned away from me]." The Prophet
also said[If anyone makes hajj and visits my grave after my death, it is as if he
visited me while I was alive].°


It has become evident that many people are unaware about fulfilling the rights of
visiting the Prophet, and unaware of the acts which are sunna and permissible. So
we seek to mention some of the rituals, and how they are performed and the
manner of decorum, in order to maximise the benefit of this book. It is required
of one intending to visit Prophet Muhammad((God bless him and grant him
peace))to increase the salutations upon him in abundance, because he hears that
which one says. When one's eyes alight on the walls of Madina, one is to ask Allah
to grant him benefit and acceptance from the visit.


It is recommended to bath prior to entering Madina or after entering, though
prior to the visit if possible. One is to apply a sweat musk and wear his best
clothes. When one enters, he should say, "Bismillahi wa 'ala millati rasulillah, Rabbi
adkhilni mudkhala sidgin wa akhrijni mukhraja sidgin wajal li min ladunka sultanan
Nasira."[In the name of Allah and on the religion of the Beloved Prophet, O my
Sustainer! Cause me to enter in a manner true and sincere and grant me out of
Your grace, sustaining strength].


One is to continue, "Allahumma salli 'ala sayyidina Muhammadin wa 'ala aali sayyidina
Muhammadin, kama sallayta 'ala sayyidina Ibrahima wa 'ala sayyidina Ibrahima, wa barik
'ala Muhammadin wa 'ala aali Muhammadin, kama barakta 'ala Ibrahima wa 'ala aali
Ibrahima fil 'alamina innaka Hamidum Majid."[O Allah, have mercy on Muhammad
and the family of Muhammad just as You have had mercy on Ibrahim and the
family of Ibrahim. And send blessings on Muhammad and on the family of
Muhammad just as You have sent blessing on Ibrahim and on the family of
Ibrahim, indeed You are the Praiseworthy, the Glorious].


Following this, it is recommended to supplicate; "Allahumma Iftahli abwab rahmatik
warzugni ziyarata Rasulika, sallAllahu 'alayhi wa sallam, ma razagta awliyaaka wa ahla
ta'atika. Wagfir li, warkamni ya Khayra Mas'ul. Allahumma! Inni as'aluka khayra
hadhihil baldati wa khayra ahliha wa khayra ma fiha, wa 'a'udhu min sharvi ahliha wa
sharri ma ftha."[O Allah, open the gates of Your mercy for me and provide me
with a visit to Your Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon


' Maraky al-Falah ٤٣٠-٤٣٥.
? Al-Hafidh al-'Iraqi fi alMughni 'an Haml al-Asfar ١/٢٥٩.[Maraky al-Falah ٤٣٠].
* Darqutani in al-Sunan ٢/٢٧٨. Tabarani in al-Awsat.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٣٥


him, as You have given it to Your friends and those who obey You. Forgive me
and have mercy on me, O best of those who are asked! O Allah, I ask You for the
good of this land and the good of its people and the good of what is in it. I seek
refuge with You from its evil, the evil of its people and the evil of what is in it}.


One should be humble, submissive and considerate. It is the land that God chose
as the abode of the hijra of His Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)),
and the place where revelation came down and the source of the rulings of the
Sacred law. One is then to enter the mosque and pray two rak'ahs at the minbar,
standing where the pillar of the minbar is near the right shoulder. And what is
between the Prophet's tomb and the minbar is a garden from the gardens of
Paradise, as the Prophet mentioned((God bless him and grant him peace))."! The
Prophet said[What is between my house and the minbdar is one of the gardens of
the Paradise]. This is referred to as Rawdat alJanna. One is to prostrate out of
gratitude to God by performing two rak'ahs in it other than the two rak'ahs one
performs upon entering the mosque. This is offered out of gratitude to what God
has allowed and assisted one in doing by granting the favour of reaching the
sacred place, after which one may supplicate what he likes.


One then goes to the noble grave and is to stand four arms length away from it(approx two meters), adopting the required etiquette and face its wall — with his
back to the gibla, standing close to the head of the Prophet and his honourable
face, aware that the Prophet hears his words and that he(the Prophet)returns the
salam and says amin to one's supplication. One should say, "Assalamu 'alayka ya
sayyidi ya rasulillah. Assalamu 'alayka ya NabiyyAllah. Assalamu 'alayka ya habib Allah.
Assalamu 'alayka ya nabiyyar-Rahma. Assalamu 'alayka ya shafi"al Umma. Assalamu
'alayka ya sayyid al-Mursalin. Assalamu 'alayka ya khatim an-Nabiyyin. Assalamu 'alayka
ya Muzzamil. Assalamu 'alayka ya Muddathir, Assalamu 'alayka wa 'ala ahl bait-ika at.
tahirina alladhina adh-haba 'an hum ar-rijs wa taharahum tathira. Ash-hadu annaka
rasulillah gad balaghtarRisala wa addaytalamanata, wa nasahtalUmmata. Fa ja
zakAllahu 'anna afdal ma jaza Nabiyyin 'an Ummatihi."[Peace be upon you, O Master
of the Messengers. Peace be upon you, O Prophet of Allah. Peace be upon you, O
beloved of Allah. Peace be upon you, O seal of the Prophets. Peace be upon you,
O Muzzamil(i.e. enwrapped). Peace be upon you, O Muddathir(i.e. enveloped).
Peace be upon you and on your family, who are pure, and whom God has
removed from them impurity and purified them. I bear witness that you are the
Messenger of Allah. You conveyed the message and carried out the trust and you
were faithful to the community. May Allah reward you for us with the best a
Prophet can be rewarded from his community].


The visitor should add,[AZahumma Innaka gulta[Wa law annahum idh dhalamu
anfusahum ja-uuka fastaghfar Allaha wastaghfara lahumur-Rasulu la wajadullaha
tawwaban rahima]. Wa gad ataytuka ya rasulAllahi mustashft"an bika ila Rabbi. Fa as-
aluka ya Rabbi an tujiba li almaghfirata kama awjabtaha liman atahu fi hayatihi.
Allahuma(١)j"athu Awwala(a)Sh-Shafi"ina ya Arham arRahimin.[O Allah, You said{If





" Bukhari, Muslim.


٤٣٦ BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


they had only, when they were unjust to themselves, come unto you and asked
Allah's forgiveness, and the Messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they
would of found Allah indeed Oft-Returning, Most Merciful}." I have come to you,
Messenger of Allah, seeking your intercession with my Lord. I ask You, O Lord,
to grant forgiveness for me as You granted it for the one who came to him when
he was alive. O Allah, make him the first of the intercessors, O Most Merciful of
the Merciful!].


Following this, one should supplicate for his parents and the Muslims, and convey
the greeting from those who have told him to convey their greeting. One says,
"Assalamu 'alayka ya RasulAllahi min(mention the name)."[Peace be upon you, O
Messenger of Allah, from so and so]. Then again, one should send salutations on
the Prophet and supplicates for whatever he likes turning with his back to the
qibla.


One then turns about half a metre to the right until he is near the head of Abu
Bakr as-Siddiq(God be pleased with him)and is to say, "Assalamu 'alayka ya
khalifata Rasulillahi, Assalamu 'alayka ya Sahiba Rasullilahi wa anisahu fil ghari wa
aminahu fil asrari, jazakAllahi 'an ummati Muhammadin khayr."[Peace be upon you, O
Khalifa of the Messenger of Allah. Peace be upon you, O Companion of the
Messenger of Allah and his comrade in the cave and the one entrusted with his
secrets! May Allah reward you from the community of Muhammad, may the
peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, with the best].


Then he turns another half metre to his right until he is standing near the head of
amir al:Mu"minin — Umar ibn al-Khattab(God be pleased with him). One is to say,
"Assalamu 'alayka ya amir al-Mu'minin. Assalamu 'alayka ya nasir al-Muslimin. Assalamu
'alayka ya man a'azzAllahu bihil Islam. JazakAllah 'an ummati Muhammadin sallAllahu
'alayhi wa sallama khayra."[Peace be upon you, Amir al-Mu"minin. Peace be upon
you, Helper of the Muslims. Peace be upon you, O you by whom Allah made
Islam mighty. May Allah repay you for the community of Muhammad, may the
peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, with the best].


After this, one is move back half a metre and say, "Assalamu 'alaykuma ya dajit
rasulillah, wa rafigihi, wa wazirihi, wa mashirihi, wa ma'anina lahu 'alal giyam biddin,
jazakumAllahu ahsanal jaza'.[Peace be upon you all, to the friends in burial of the
Messenger of Allah and his associates, and his advisors and his helpers in
implementing the religion, may Allah reward you with the best reward]. One is
then to stand near the head of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))as he did the first time and say, "Wa law annahum idh dhalamu anfusahum ja-uuka
fastaghfar Allaha wast-aghfara lahumur-Rasulu la wajadullaha tawwaban rahima."?[If
they had only, when they were unjust to themselves, come unto you and asked
Allah's forgiveness, and the Messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they
would of found Allah indeed Oft-Returning, Most Merciful]. It is recommended
that one add, "We have come to you listening to your saying, adhering to your


" An-Nisa ٦٤.
? An-Nisa ٦٤.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٣٧


command, seeking your intercession. O God, forgive us, and our fathers and
mothers and our believing brothers who have passed before us." One may
increase as he likes of the supplication, voluntary prayer and repent to Allah
asking for what he wants. It is recommended to come to the Rawda and pray what
one desires and supplicate what he likes and make fasbih in abundance as well as
tahlil(i.e. to say: there is no deity but Allah)and istighfar. Thereafter, one is to
come to the minbar and place his hand on the pommel where the Prophet would
place his hand during the sermon, in order to acquire the blessing.


It is recommended to go out to al-Baqi' and visit the graves. A'ishah said[The
Messenger of God used to go out at the end of the night to al-Baqi and say, "Peace
be upon you, abode of a believing people. What you were promised will come to
you tomorrow as decreed. Allah willing, we will join you. O Allah, forgive the
people of Bagi al-Gharqad]." Among the known graves are Ibrahim, the son of the
Prophet, Uthman ibn Affan, al-Abbas, al-Hasan ibn Ali and others, and he should
finish by visiting the grave of Safiyya, the paternal aunt of the Messenger of God.
It is recommended to go to Uhud early on Thursday and visit its martyrs
beginning with Hamza(may God be pleased with him), the uncle of the Prophet
and leader of the martyrs. It is recommended to recite the verse a/-Kursi, surah al-
Ikhlas eleven times and surah Ya-sin, and donate the rewards to all the martyrs.


It is recommended to visit the Mosque of Quba' on Saturday and pray in it. Ibn
Umar said[The Prophet used to visit the mosque of Quba' every Saturday riding
or walking and prayed two rak'ahs in it].' It is also recommended to visit other
mosques, such as the Mosque of al-Fat'h, the Jumu'a Mosque, the Mosque of al-
Fadikh and the Mosque of al-Ahzab, the confederates.


o, ٢%,
"~~ ٠ @


"~


All praise is due to Allah, the one who enlightened the hearts and minds and
permitted such a task. I ask Allah Most High to make this a means by which
others may learn their religion and a means of attaining nearness to Him. May
Allah accept this effort and accept us, guide us, teach us what is beneficial and
unite the nation of Muhammad(God bless him and grant him peace). This task
began on the ٠١/٠٢/٢٠٠٦ and was finalised on the ١٠/١١/٢٠٠٧.


" Muslim.
? Bukhari and Muslim.


GLOSSARY


٤٣٩


Adhan - the call to prayer
Amin - amin
Amir - lit. one who commands, the source of authority in any situation


Amir al-Muminin - the Commander of the Believers, a title of respect given to the
Caliph

Ansar - the helpers, the people of Madina, who welcomed and aided the Messenger of
Allah(may Allah bless him and grant him peace).


Arafah - a plain ٢٤ km to the east of Makkah which stands the Mountain of Mercy,
where it is said that Adam was re-united with Hawwa(Eve)after years of wandering
after being expelled from the Garden Of Eden. One of the rites of the hajj is to stand
on Arafah on the ٩th Dhul al Hijjah.


Ashura - the ١٠th day of Muharram. It is considered a highly desirable day to fast.
'Asr - is the afternoon prayer

'Awrah - the parts of the body that must be covered.

Awsuq - plural of wasaq. One wasaq is equal to sixty sa'

Ayah - a verse of the Quran


Badr - a place where the first battle of the newly established Muslim community
fought. The outnumbered ٣٠٠ Muslims led by the Messenger of Allah(May Allah
bless him and grant him peace)overwhelmed and defeated ١٠٠٠ Makkan idol


worshippers.

Bani Isra'il - the tribe of Israel

Al-Bagi - the cemetery of the people of Madina

Bait al-mal - the public treasury

Dhikr - remembrance

Dhul al-Hijjah - the twelfth month of the Islamic calendar, the month of hajj
Dirham - silver coinage. One dirham is approx ٣.٠٨ grams of silver

Eid - a festival.


Eid al-Adha - a four day festival at the time of hajj. The Eid of sacrifice starts on the
١٠th of Dhul al Hijjah, the day the pilgrims sacrifice their animals.


Eid al- Fitr - the festival at the end of the fasting month of Ramadan

Fard - obligatory

Fasiq - disobedient, one who does not comply fully with the dictates of the Law.
Fatwa - is the plural of fatawa. Legal rulings issued by a jurist.


Fagih - an expert in figh[jurisprudence]. A jurist who has the ability to derive the law
from the texts of the Quran and Sunna.


٤٤٢

Fidya - compensation paid for rites missed or wrongfully performed because of
ignorance or ill- health

Figh - science of application of the Shari 'a

Fitnah - evil; trial; disruption; insurrection.

Fitrah - the first nature, the natural[natural disposition].

Ghusl - the full ritual washing of the body.


Hadath - is when a person is legally regarded as being in the state of minor impurity
as distinguished from mere physical impurity.


Hadith - reported speech, particularly of the Prophet Muhammad(may Allah bless
him and grant him peace)Hadith qudsi - those words of Allah that was narrated by the Prophet(may Allah bless
him and grant him peace).


Hadd - fixed penalties.

Hady - an animal offered as a sacrifice during the hajj

Hajj - the greater pilgrimage

Hajj al-Ifrad - hajj 'by itself without umrah.

Hajj al—Qiran - the joined hajj combining both hajj and umrah

Hajj al-Tamattu' - the 'interrupted hajj,' that is performing hajj at separate intervals
Halal - permitted by the Shari'a


Haram - forbidden by the Shari'a. Also a protected area around the ka'bah and
around the Prophet's Masjid where certain behaviour is forbidden and other
behaviour is necessary.


Hayd - menstruation
Hijaz - the region of Arabia in which Makkah, Medina, Jeddah and Ta'if are situated


Hijra - to emigrate in the way of Allah. Islam takes its dating from the hijra of the
Holy Prophet(may Allah bless him and grant him peace)to Medina.


Hiqqah - a she-camel that has entered its fourth year.

'Thada - worship

Ihram - a condition adopted on a person during hajj or umrah.

Imam - Muslim ruler; the person leading the prayers.

Iqama - the call which announces that the obligatory prayer is about to begin.
Iqtida - following another in prayer.


Irtithath - availing some faculties before death after being wounded in battle. It
includes eating, drinking, sleeping, and taking medicines or being transferred alive
from the battlefield.





Isnad - the chain of transmission of a tradition.
I'takaf - religious retreat(seclusion)Izar - a piece of cloth used as a waist wrapper by both men and women


Jamrah - a stone built pillar. Three are located in Mina and one of the rites of hajj is to
stone them.


Jamrah al Aqabah - one of the three Jamrahs located at Mina. It is situated at the
entrance of Mina in the direction of Makkah


Janaba - the state of major impurity on which a person requires the major bath. This
covers the condition resulting from ejaculation while asleep or awake, with or without
sexual intercourse and sexual intercourse with or without ejaculation.


Mimbar - steps on which the imam stands to deliver the sermon on the day of Jumu'a
Mina - a valley ٨ km on the road to Arafah where the three Jamrahs are located.
Migat - one of the designated places for entering into ihram

Maharram - the first month of the Islamic year, which is based on the lunar calendar
Muhrim - pilgrim, a person in ihram

Mus'haf - the Quran in two covers

Mushrik - someone who attributes partners to Allah


Muzdalifa - a place between Arafah and Mina where the pilgrims returning from
Arafah spend a night


Nafl - a voluntary act

Najis - filth, impurity

Nisab - a minimum amount of wealth that zakat can be deducted from
Postnatal bleeding - The blood that is discharged after a woman gives birth
Prostration - when one places his knees, hands and forehead on the ground
Qibla - the direction of prayer, that is the holy ka'bah

Qunut - supplication made while standing in the witr prayer


Quraysh - one of the great tribes of Arabia. The Messenger of Allah(may Allah bless
him and grant him peace)belonged to this tribe


Rak"ah - a unit of prayer, a complete series of standings, bowings, prostrations and
sittings


Ramadan - the month of fasting, the ninth month of the Muslim calendar
Ruku - the bowing posture in prayer
Sadagqah - giving in the way of Allah, especially wealth


Safa and Marwah - two hills close to the ka'bah. It is part of hajj and umrah to go
seven times between each hill


Sahur - the pre-dawn meal

Sajda - the act of making prostration

Salat - prayer

Sa'iy - going between Safa and Marwah seven times
Sha'ban - the eighth month of the Islamic calendar


Shahada - the affirmation that 'there is no deity but Allah and Muhammad is the Messenger of
Allah'


Shahid - a martyr


Shari'a - is the Sacred Law based on the Quran and the traditions of the Holy
Prophet(may the peace and blessing of Allah be upon him)Siwak - a tooth stick used for brushing usually from the 'Araq tree
Sujud - the position of prostration


Sunna - the practice of the Messenger of Allah(may the peace and blessing of Allah be
upon him)Sultan - ruler

Sutrah - an object placed in front

Tahajjud - voluntary prayer at night, between the 'Isha and the Fajr prayers
Takbir - the saying of 'Allahu Akbar'(Allah is Great).

Talbiyah - the calling of 'labbayk'


Tarawih - extra night prayers, usually done in congregation in the month of
Ramadan.


Tashahhud - lit. to make shahada. It is said in the final sitting position of each two
rak'ah cycle


Tawaf - circling the ka'bah, tawaf is done in sets of seven circuits

Tayammum - Dry ablution with sand or clean earth

Umrah - the lesser pilgrimage. It can be performed any time of the year.
Wajib - see wajib in the definitions of the opening chapter.

Wali - guardian granted authority by the law.

Witr - the odd prayer

Wudu - ablution, minor ablution

Zakat - poor due

Zakat al-Fitr - charity, required per head. This is paid on the day of Eid al-Fitr.