BOOK II: PRAYER ١٦٣


wished it could pass through this space]." The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))also said[When a believer makes a prostration, each limb in his body


makes the prostration, therefore, he should make each limb face the qibla insofar
as he is able to]."


doen y ١S ٩٥ cbtabes gid Jo ay Lely oder dI oy bey(١S el, ٠٥)٠٣)PIN Le ee: yo LS aad aby ed ater cathy added ce acl Sle y UE ٤b eins Laan
٢ yd Why ety


He is then to rise from prostration saying 'Allahu akbar' and adopt the sitting
posture between the two prostrations pausing for a moment in serenity placing
the hands on the thighs. He then utters the 'akdir[Allahu akbar]and prostrates
for the second time and pauses for a moment at ease during which he says, 'Glory
be to my Lord most high' three times. In prostration, a man is to distance his
abdomen from his thighs and his upper arms from the armpits. Thereafter, he is
to raise his head saying the takdir and rise to the second rak'ah without depending


on the ground with one's hands and without briefly sitting, such as those of the
Shafi'i Madhhab observe.


dy Vy oh Yad YI VIS SU as MN,


The second rak'ah is performed like the first one with the exception that there is
no thana'(opening glorification)nor is there ta'awwudh, which is seeking refuge in
Allah from Satan for recitation of Quran.


WS pe Gi gS ey ٥g My Vall fo ٩ yy ry oye ad le ry aS Cy ry
OI glial ie Cer Ae y gla gly SW ٨ pal go dey Alo yo


It is not sunna to raise the hands, such as for the bowing posture or when rising
from it, except for the opening takbir of all prayers, the takbir of qunut(supplication
of witr)and for the additional takbirs of both Eids. Externally from prayer, it is
sunna to raise the hands at, i)the time one sees the ka'bah; ii)at the time one
greets the black stone, iii)when one is upon the Safa and ManwaA, that is, upon
standing where the ka'bah can be seen one is to say, "Allahu akbar, there is no
god except Allah" raising the hands opening them directly towards the sky and
supplicating; iv)when one is standing in Arafah and Muzdalifah, it is sunna to
raise the hands; v)after the first and middle stoning of the jamrahs(it sunna to
raise them for supplication);' and lastly, vi)it is sunna to raise the hands after
every prayer when one has completed the tasdih. The rule is based on the words of
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[The hands are not to be


'Ibn Abi Shaybah, Ahmad. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٨٦.
? An-Nasai, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٣٨٧.
* Bukhari ١٧٥٢.

