BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٣٩


wel I


If a person backbites, the fast does not break. The hadith which is attributed to
the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))when he was passing by two
men, one was being cupped and the other was the cupper and they were
backbiting another person, thereupon the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said, "That their fast is broken." This means that they have lost their
rewards for fasting.'


paz Ly jail os ٥٥ ٥h


If one intends to break his fast, but does not do so, then he has not broken his fast
because the person did not undertake the action.


dane Wit > ail> Joo gl


If smoke enters the throat unintentionally, the fast does not break for the reason
that is was unintentional and therefore unavoidable.


as peal S١٣ yay ٣ ٥٢! gab I gl bd loo tbll Le Jy Le si


Likewise, if dust, even the dust of flour, or a fly or the taste of medicine
accidentally enters the throat while one remembers he is fasting, then he has not
nullified his fast. Note: one may have had medicine prior to dawn and the taste
lingered in the mouth until long after dawn.


ULLL Leys patel gly c Lex anv yl


If one awakens in the state of sexual impurity[janaba](due to a sexual dream or
sexual intercourse before dawn)the fast does not break, even if one remains in
this state for the entire day or many days. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said{The Apostle of Allah would be overtaken by the dawn when he was in a state of
major ritual impurity(when he was fasting)].'


Las gl eb all>]Gr JI


If water or medicinal oil is poured in the opening of the penis, the fast remains
sound according to Abu Hanifa and Imam Muhammad, though contrary to Abu
Yusuf. It is as if Abu Yusuf considers that there is a passage between this opening
and a body cavity for which reason urine emerges. Abu Hanifa understands that
the bladder provides a barrier between them and urine is pushed out through it.
This is something that does not belong to the category of fiqgh. The answer is to be
given by a medical expert. This is similar to cases that fall under tahgig al-man'at.'


wl oll prs le ye ٣


" Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah and al-Baihaqi | Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٢.
? Abu Dawud ٢٣٨٢.
٣ Al-Hidayah.

