BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٩
If there is a dead animal in the water and no-one knows how long it has been
there, it renders the water impure for one day and one night; meaning the people
must repeat one day and night of prayer if they used that water to perform wudy
from.


٤٦ B٩٥ y plu dol Sl » Pll OW eiray


If the animal is bloated(swollen), then the water is ruled impure for three days
and three nights if no one knows when the animal fell in; meaning the People
must repeat three days and three nights of prayer provided they used this water to
make ablution from or used the water for the major bath. Note: if the animal is
bloated, this indicates that it has been in the water for some time and for this
reason the water is deemed impure for three days and three nights. If however the
people only used the well-water to wash their filthy clothes and not for wudu, then
they need not repeat their prayers, though they must wash their clothes again.


+ ٠ Sl Le ett OS ey ole G[rad
Istinja? And That Which is Required Prior To Wudu
gh glade sl ecocsll gl tll Le]Gale > fe al sabes dy SS a٢ ee Lee Jo Meh
J yl ety Sy ٥p take o> ep NU G٩ Ald yt Vy oe


On passing urine, a person must ensure that the leakage of urine has stopped and
his mind is satisfied concerning the issue. This is achieved through one's regular
habits, such as walking, coughing, or leaning on one's side. The woman is not
required to do this. She is to wait a small time and then clean herself. It is not
permissible to begin wudu until one is satisfied that the leakage of urine has
stopped.

tl VI SS


The Ruling Of Istinja
CPL sales de kN oe CF rs op Se ele Wy


Istinja is sunna when the filth that exits from the private part has not spread past
the boundary of the outlet. For example; if a person defecates and the faecal
matter does not smear beyond the perimeter of the anus, then istinja is sunna.
This applies to male and female.


٢ Fi om Al be a١٥ Ly UL Ij)my pm pal ٥ OLS ٥ LE OL,


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦.


* Linguistically, istinja is to wipe or wash the place where excrement is discharged.
Excrement is the term given for that which exits the bowel. According to scholars of
jurisprudence, it is the removal of filth with water or the like.


٤٠ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


If the filth crosses the boundary of its outlet and is equal to the size of a dirham,'
it is necessary to remove it with water or with a liquid cleanser such as rose water.
And if the filth passes the boundary of the outlet and is more than the size of a
dirham, then it is obligatory to clean with water.


Additionally, when a person is observing the major bath from post intercourse
discharge, menstrual bleeding and postnatal bleeding, it is obligatory to wash the


filth in the exit passage, even if it is a minimal quantity. One is not to exert
difficulty upon himself when undertaking this cleaning.


pnts pd cemed edly oll Gy aall Pad y oT UL Pally opty Gu re es Ol ey


pd Ul le parts ol jt
It is sunna to perform istinja with a clean stone or the like provided it is not rough
such as burnt clay and not valuable, and washing with water is superior than
simply wiping the filthy area. Whereas the best method is to combine between
washing with water and wiping. Hence, the individual wipes, and then washes.
And it is permitted if a person uses only one method; meaning, if one restricts the
cleaning to washing only, it is permitted and vice versa.


Le ٩٩ lo telat fea Ot Lai glared OWL nd BIS pe eV yds gla VIG oaally[nll lai]Ey


The sunna is to purify the area, and to use a prescribed number of stones is
recommended, and not an emphasized sunna, and the recommended number of
stones to use is three, even if the area is cleaned in less than that. Imam Shafi'i
said that three is necessary due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[Perform istinja with three stones]. The Hanafis rely on the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[Whomever
cleaned, then he should clean in odd numbers, and whoever observed this, has
done well and whoever did not, there is no blame].'


How To Perform Istinja


BYs dahl ols ١٣١ als


If the males scrotum is hanging loosely(or stretched), then the procedure of
istinja is as follows: one is to wipe with the first stone from the front part(near the
testicles)through to the rear, and with the second from the rear to the front, and
with the third from the front to the rear, and this is the etiquette. Moreover, the
reason this procedure is related with a long scrotum is because it is recommended
to conclude the wiping at the rear so that the filth is not brought to the front and
spread all over due to the long scrotum.


" A dirham = ٢٠ qirat with respect to solids(or approx ٣.٥ grams)and with respect to fluid, the
size is equivalent to its area(or the expanse of a large coin). Maraky al-Falah ٢٨.
* Abu Dawud ٣٥.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٤}elas SI abe oy cdg BY ne CIS Oly


If however, the scrotum is not hanging loosely, then one is to begin from the rear
to front because in this situation, cleaning can be optimally achieved.


gr Pte gh Ett WE I pli oo egal tt,
The female is to begin from the front to the rear, for fear of defiling her vagina.
chal ole gl awl I Cool bly UL fod Ua ٠٥ UL YI oy Jenks!


After wiping, the male is to first wash his hand because if he first touches the
soiled area while his hand is dry, it may soak the faeces into the skin; thereafter,


he is to rub the soiled area with water using the inside of his finger, two fingers or
three if needed.


Bam ly ane]Le pats Vy ٠ pay dana: od ele Wi ela! Gad Jo ghee Marne! be Juans


The male is to raise his middle finger over the other fingers at the beginning of
the istinja, and thereafter is to raise his ring finger forward, as it insures optimum


cleaning. The male is not to restrict the cleaning to only one finger because
cleaning will not be optimally achieved.


BAU! J pram ٢٢> clisl Lee gull bu gly le par deuai al II,


The female is to raise her ring finger along with her middle fingers
simultaneously at the start of istinja for fear of being sexually aroused. This means
that the woman uses the majority of her fingers when she begins.[she ٣S Jo sand Let by dy SU oul Ni chs o> ikl J ley
One is to perform the utmost in cleaning the area until the foul smell is gone, and
is to thoroughly relax the buttocks or hips in order to clean what is in the passage
to the best of one's ability, though this relaxation of the buttocks(and hips)is
performed provided one is not fasting, and the basis for this is that there is water


present around the anus which will nullify one's fast if it enters, and one must be


cautious not to allow their wet finger from entering the private area, otherwise,
the fast breaks.(glee ol ١٣}eal fo Gtate ars y Ll ody font t» las


When one finishes from cleaning the soiled area with water, the hand is to be
washed for the second time and the buttocks are to be dried before standing if the
person is fasting, because if one is fasting and the buttocks are wet, it may be
drawn in when standing which could nullify the fast.

