٣٧٠ BOOK IV: FASTING


aaaSm y ad jrny DIKE ancy pte


The Legality Of I'tikaf, Its Status And Wisdom


Sly GUL £٩ A IRE;


Religious retreat[I'tikaf| is legal and permissible through Quranic text and the
Prophet's sunna. Allah states in the Quran[Do not associate with your wives
while you are in I'tikaf(retreat)in the masjid]." As for the sunna, A'ishah narrated
that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would perform['tikaf in
the last ten days of Ramadan when he arrived at Madina until Allah took his
soul].? Imam al-Zuhri said; "J am amazed at the people in how they left I'tikaf, whilst the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would perform this action. They leave it whilst
the Prophet did not, until he passed."


OH! Ge ONS ١٣)SEI td ops gay
Religious retreat is from the most honourable of actions, provided it is performed
with sincerity to Allah, for the reason that this person in /'ttkaf is waiting for the
group prayer in the masjid and is therefore like one who is constantly engaged in
prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The slave(of
Allah)does not cease prayer so long as he is in the masjid waiting for the prayer].°


SN Sf atl ala y Ly yal pe Ca by i ad OF cake ye


From the benefits and merits of /'tikaf is the heart being separated from the
matters of this world while submitting to the Master and Owner of all that exists.


aay J Oole jes


Another merit is a person's remaining in actions of worship in the house of Allah
as in accordance with the hadith of the Prophet((God bless him and give peace))who said that Allah said[I am to my servant as he expects of Me. I am with him
when he remembers Me. If he remembers Me in his heart, I remember him in
Myself. And if he remembers Me in an assembly, | mention him in an assembly
better than his. And if he draws nearer to Me a hand- span, I draw nearer to him
an arm's length. And if he draws nearer to Me an arm's length, I draw nearer to
him a fathoms length and if he comes to Me walking, I rush to him at great
speed]."


" Al-Bagarah ١٨٧.

? Bukhari ٢٠٢٦, Muslim ١١٧١.

? Bukhari, the Book of Wudu; Maraky al-Falah ٤٠٥.
* Bukhari.

