BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٧


La pgs y LVI olsol ٣ ad
Wells And Their Purification
Pe gh po bai Ny Ye oe - CN Ly - Soles Epi peal Nes


All the water is to be withdrawn from a small well if an impurity falls in, even if
the impurity is small such as a drop of blood or alcohol. This is because a small
impurity renders a small quantity of water impure, even if it does not visibly
appear in the water. Though this rule excludes a small amount of dung, for the
reason that a small amount is unavoidable and is therefore ignored. However, it is
not ignored in an excessive quantity. The reason a small amount is ignored is
because the mouths of wells are generally not covered and cattle drop their dung
around them and these are then cast into the wells by the wind.


Led eat gh BLE sl IS ms gary ell aad res dh Ct Ny ner Eyes


Likewise, all the water is to be withdrawn if a pig falls in the well, even if it comes
out alive and its tongue did not touch the water. The reason for this is that all
parts of the pig are deemed impure, so any part of the pig that touches the water
instantly renders it filthy. Also, if a dog, sheep or human die in the well, then all
the water is to be withdrawn. It is reported that when a man died in Zamzam
water this is what Ibn Abbas and Ibn al-Zubair(God be pleased with them)ordered with many of the Companions present with no objection. Equally, with
respect to the dog, death is conditional because it is completely pure with the
exception of its tongue; which means if the dog does not die in the well and exits
the water with its tongue not touching it, then the water remains pure."


ler par d Seg Bley lee shy dl ym Cll,


Furthermore, all the water is to be withdrawn if there is a dead bloated animal in
the water, even if it is a small animal, for the reason that its filth has spread into
the water given the fact that it is bloated which indicates it has been there for a
while. If it is not possible to withdraw all the water, then it is necessary to expel
٢٠٠ buckets of water from the well. Note; the buckets are to be of average size,
usually the bucket used for the well itself.


Nolo on te HD aps shi YS Sb OL yl yo CI Fed pu slip shoteo kd ib
goin; Le My Hatt, ٢b aye AUS OMS,

If however, a chicken, cat, or something of the like dies in the water, then ٤٠

buckets must be withdrawn. If a rat dies, or something of the like, then ٢٠ buckets


are to be withdrawn. And this action of taking out the water purifies the well,
bucket, rope and the hand of the person cleaning the well. This is the verdict from


Imam Abu Yusuf and Imam Hasan.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٣.

