٣٤٠ BOOK IV: FASTING


If one enters a river and water enters inside the opening of the ears, the fast does
not break.


a٣]Syl eal ٠٥٩ ache ¢ dab o ya, aid Uo I


If a person places a twig in his ear(or an ear bud)and withdraws wax with it and
then re-enters the twig back into his ear again, the fast does not break according
to the agreement of the scholars, because this wax or general dirt does not reach
the brain.


anlaly line atrnuld ble asl[>> yi


If nasal mucus enters the nasal passage and is sniffed back into the throat and
swallowed on purpose, the fast remains sound.


diary bls LMS be ae po dns Vg absall lil any


The mucus(or phlegm)of the throat must be expelled so that it does not break
the fast according to the saying of Imam Shafi'i(God have Mercy on him), for the
reason that a person has the ability to emit it from the mouth.


YAY)cemeall Sold He gy aarre nay(٤٠ ٣٣ Le)ae Cy)das YIIS)y DI(ade y dene gl)٦٥٣ ٥١
Gole ٤ sday


If one inadvertently vomits, the fast does not break even if it is a mouthful. This is
due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[If
one had a sudden attack of vomiting while one was fasting, no atonement is
required of him, but if he vomits intentionally he must make atonement];" and
likewise if the vomit(that came up)turns back inside unintentionally and is a
mouthful, the fast is not broken according to the most correct view held by Imam
Muhammad because he is not nourished by this and because it does not resemble
the picture of one who is breaking his fast, which is to swallow in the real sense.
However, Abu Yusuf says that the fast is void.


cewnall baled sy ernall fo ado fo ope Ji(OLS g art af Land ١H)olin I


Intentionally vomiting /ess than a mouthful does not break the fast according to
the most sound view, even if the vomit that came up goes back inside according to
the correct view. This is the opinion held by Abu Yusuf saying that the vomit has
not come out legally. On the other hand, Imam Muhammad held that one's fast is
nullified if he intentionally vomits less than a mouthful.


dahl O٥٩ ٠S, cul le Ist jl
If a person swallows the traces of food that remain between his teeth from the pre-
dawn meal, it does not break the fast provided it is less than the size of a


chickpea. The reason it does not nullify fast is because it is judged as part of the
saliva, and this is something of which one is unable to avoid.


" Abu Dawud ٢٣٧٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٤١


Chewing something like sesame that comes from outside the mouth until it melts,
does not break the fast provided the taste does not appear in the throat. However,
if one swallows a sesame that comes from outside the mouth, then his fast is
broken according to Imam Muhammad. Note, chewing without letting anything
enter the inside and swallowing a sesame that comes from outside the mouth hold
two different rulings. The latter breaks the fast while the former does not. If on
the other hand one swallows a sesame that was stuck between his teeth, then the
fast does not break as mentioned earlier.


clad! as ٣ USI ٢ £٩ ٦ pall tae bb ob


What Nullifies The Fast Requiring Expiation" And A Make-up Day
PISS, Ladd ag)leas pb bdeace Laile Ups Lt pial fad I]Lt Oy ey OL yay
There are twenty-two things, which if performed willingly and intentionally
without being compelled, results in the termination of the fast and requires a
compulsory make-up day and expiation to atone for the violation. They are:
a Synally Jet fe hell sol § elt


Having intercourse in either of the passageways(vagina or anus)breaks the fast of
both the doer and the receiver of the act and makes them liable for expiation and
gada(to make up the day). This is due to the completion of offence. Note, the
ruling is the same whether one has an orgasm or not because in this case carnal
desire is satisfied even without it. Moreover, Imam Shafi'i restricts the obligation
of expiation for intercourse only and not for eating or drinking."


٤ Sgly gl a Gebity Le ad lpn o pttly SW


Eating or drinking whether it is for nourishment or for a medicinal benefit(even
if it is minimal)breaks the fast and necessitates expiation and a make-up day.


aed SI Jo pee pI,


To swallow rain water after it enters the mouth, breaks the fast and necessitates a
make-up day and expiation.


٣٩٢ U٣]Vj La OS Ly oS endl sly





" There are several actions that if performed during the day of Ramadan, results in the
nullification of the fast, a makeup day, and an obligatory expiation in order to atone for
the major violation. The expiation consists of freeing a sound slave, though if one does not
have the means to do this, then he must fast two consecutive months. And if one is unable,
then the expiation is to feed sixty unfortunate persons twice. In the event that the
expiation is not performed, then it remains as an unperformed obligation upon the person
concerned.


? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٤٢٧.

