٧٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


PANNE gly cle ٣٦ Hye das pec ceed pial: GU


٢- The second condition that permits tayammum is: one must have a valid reason
such as being separated from water the distance of a mile,' even though one is in
the city. If one is at a distance that is less than a mile, he must go for water. This
stipulation holds that there be a valid reason such as the absence of water.
However, this absence is split into two types; the first is the real absence and the
second type is the legal absence. The real absence is defined as the actual water not
being available or found by the impure person, due to being separated from it the
distance of a mile. According to the Hanafis, one is to seek water if it is near-by or
there are people present who may be asked or one has a predominant view it is
present in a locality based on evidence such as birds or a fruit tree. If this is not
the case, one is not required to seek it. What is considered in this case is one's
predominant belief. The legal absence is defined as follows; the water is available,
though one has no ability to use it because he may contract an illness by using the
water or that one's illness will become aggravated or delayed. Another reason is
fear from a predator or another human or fear for one's possessions or trusts. In
addition is the absence of an instrument by which to extract water from a well or
another source; or fear of thirst or death upon oneself, companions or beast and
so forth.'


Bt GY cre cll y tae y ye Gy ٢ Al sf i ce GE oy op Spars
ely Jy te glajke Meo Gyorgy Saad,


Other reasons include; contracting an illness fearing that it will aggravate one's
condition or delay the recovery time, or cause fever and diarrhea; or it is so cold
that one fears harm to life or limb or that he will become seriously ill from the use
of the water, or one fears an enemy which he may encounter in the search of
water. A person may fear for himself, goods, or trusts that he has in his
possession.


Likewise, the fear of thirst or needing the water to make dough, for baking bread
is a valid reason. This may be due to a necessity of not having food, in which case
one may use the water for the dough and perform tayammum, though one cannot
use this water for soup because there is no necessity for it. And the absence of an





" Being separated from water means to be separated from a quantity of water that is sufficient
for wudu; and in relation to the distance of a mile, Maraky al-Falah ٧٢ states that one mile
equates to ٤٠٠٠ arm lengths[dhira], which is equivalent to ١٨٦٦ metres. Other Hanafi sources
maintain that it is equivalent to the distance of ١٨٤٨ metres[Al Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-
Salkini ١١٧], while the international established measure nowadays is ١٨٥٢ metres. However, it
is in all likelihood that this mile is in reference to a nautical mile which is a unit of length,
because the normal(statute)mile equates to ١٦٠٩ metres and the Hanafi sources have not
mentioned this figure. A nautical mile was developed from the geographical mile. It
corresponds approximately to one minute of latitude along any meridian. It is a non-SI unit
especially used by navigators in the shipping and aviation sector.

* Al-Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٧-١١٨.

