٦٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Te Je SV)pill ae Salas Ve gay pil Lo ١٣]By sl gle sl ele sl pla «J


٤/ Vomiting a mouthful of food and water, blood clots or bile nullifies wudu,
provided the vomit is a mouthful. And the definition of a mouthful is that the
mouth cannot be shut except with difficulty and this is the correct view and the
way of the ten who were promised Paradise and the best of the Tabi'in such as
Hassan Al-Basri and Ibn Sirin. It has been established that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))vomited and thereafter performed wudu."
Indeed, this was the way of the ten promised paradise.' Moreover, the Prophet,
"Perform wudu from seven things: from the leakage of urine, from all flowing
blood, vomit, from das'a(a spurt of vomit)which is a mouthful, from sleeping
while lying on one's side, the audible laughing in prayer and the emission of
blood."*

aoe AENN٣| ٦ UG ite ant y
٥/ If a person vomits a few times and the cause is the same for each time, then
these several occurrences are deemed as one occurrence, and if the addition of all
these occurrences of vomiting equate to a mouth full, then ablution is nullified
according to Imam Muhammad,' though according to Abu Yusuf, he maintained
that if the place where he vomited was the same, then his ablution is void,
otherwise it is not. As for the mucus which descends from the head, it is not an
annulling factor by agreement of the scholars since it is pure. And the fatwa is in
accordance with this.

ol sl gh Stj JI de Ue poy

٦/ If one's saliva is overshadowed by blood(from an injury in the mouth)or the
blood is even with the saliva, ablution is void. If one sees that his saliva is red or
yellow, then it is regarded as overshadowed. Though it has been said that a light
colour of red makes it even whereas a strong colour of red dominates it. In
addition, the blood which descends from the head invalidates wudu because it
flows even if it is minimal. This is agreed upon. Likewise, the runny blood which
rises from the internal area of the body is an invalidator of wudu and the majority
held this view.


IW cp Banal ab Sad ١ ٦ sis


" At-Tirmidhi ٨٧.

? Maraky al-Falah ٥٤.

* Az-Zayla"i fi Nasb ar-Rayya ١/٤٤ and Ibn Hajar fi ad-Darayya ١/٣٣.[Maraky al-Falah ٥٤].

' For example, if one vomits a small amount(not a mouthful)because of a stomach virus
and then shortly after vomits another time because of the same cause, in this case the
virus, then the two occurrences are regarded as one, and if the addition of both equate to a
mouthful according to a person's estimation, then wudu is void. If on the other hand this
person vomited a second time because of a different reason, such as coughing thereby
causing one to vomit, then it is regarded as a separate incident.


* Maraky al-Falah ٥٤

