١٩٨ BOOK II: PRAYER





pa SY ks
That Which Is Not Disliked In Prayer
bu Sse SY
To tie something around the waist, such as a belt or something similar is not
disliked.
aS pw frets ١ Ifo pny ee Ws Vy


It is not disliked to carry a sword or something similar during prayer provided it
does not distract one with its movement.


shall fe aid y arp Gur SEs! ese Vy


Placing the hands in the two openings at the front of the traditional shirt or in the
split of the openings is not disliked, and this is the preferred view for it does not


take away from one's concentration.


There is no dislike if there is a Quran in front of the person praying or a sword
hanging in front of him, because neither of them is worshipped. Allah said[When
you(O Messenger)are with them, and stand to lead them in prayer, let one party
of them stand up with you(in prayer)taking their arms with them]."


cell le cl ol aad gl ode te ٤b ol


Praying towards the back of a person who is talking is not disliked because Ibn
Umar((God be pleased with him))on occasions used to take Nafi' as a barrier on
his journeys.' Likewise, praying towards a candle or lamp is not disapproved, and
this the most sound view because it does not resemble those who worship the fire.


Ugle tree dp sliai db bly Jeo yroly


To prostrate on carpet that has pictures on it resembling living beings, is of no
harm provided one does not perform the prostration on the pictures.


AE OAL ٦ GI ply OL pa Jy LT GLE Ute b> Jy


Killing a snake or scorpion fearing they may cause harm, even if it takes multiple
strikes to kill them and during which one skews from the direction of prayer, is
not disliked, and this is the most evident view on the matter. This is specifically
for one who feared harm. If one had no fear and yet killed them with a lot of
movement, there is disagreement if the prayer is nullified or not.


CS pI Getnme jah WS ag pain bl Vy


" An-Nisa ١٠٢.
? Ibn Abi Shaybah, Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢/٩٦.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٩٩


There is no harm if one shakes his clothes to prevent them from sticking to his
body in the bowing posture.


Beall oye aba she po ١a! FL il LE Vy Beall ope FL all dey a Pl A oe eee eee Vy
There is no objection if one wipes his forehead from dirt or grass after the prayer


is complete. And neither is it disliked prior to its completion if it disturbs one's
concentration in prayer or could potentially harm him.


am Ml pF nd cp ee bye ALY,


If one looks(right or left)through the corner of his eyes without turning the face,
it is not disliked. However, it is better to omit it because it is from the conduct of
prayer to look at the area of prostration.


at le fe sh NN Jo all Paiy ٢ Uy boty ٢ dll Jo DML LLY,


There is no harm if one prays on a mattress, carpet or board provided the head
meets the firmness of the ground. However, the best prayer is on the ground or on
that which the earth produces such as grass and straw.


Sed op ASM G٥)pS SS LY,


There is no harm if one repeats the same surah in two rak'ahs of a voluntary
prayer, i.e. to read it once in the first rak'ah and repeat it again in the second
rak'ah of the prayer.


Oo aM o%
"e "se "ee


٣ poy ot ley aall abd ٤ |S


When Is It Necessary |Wajib| To Cut Off Prayer
And When It Is Permitted


aryl dol lie Y foal ygle Glaeal Dall abs


It is wajib to cut off prayer, even though it is an obligatory one if there are
desperate calls for help from someone. Though not with the normal calls of a
parent because to discontinue prayer is only permitted when there is a need.
Imam at-Tahawi held this view for the obligatory prayer. However, with respect to
voluntary prayer, if one of the parents knows that their child is engaged in prayer
and he is called, then there is no harm in not responding to the call. Though if
both are unaware about one's engagement in prayer, then he is to answer them.!


ogrnty td seed ٥٢٥ Be al ck fe Sgt coed gly Ayo gal be Gp Upabad ٥ oe


It is permissible to cut off prayer, even though it is an obligatory one, if there is a
thief who is stealing anything equivalent to a dirham, even if the property belongs
to someone else or because one fears a wolf or something like it is about to attack
the sheep, or fears that a blind man may fall into a well or hole. Note: If the one


" Maraky al-Falah ٢١٤.

