٢١٤ BOOK I: PRAYER





CoM fe Mail SG Vy BLN Lt ee SYS Fy pdt Gaby Aly


If a ship at sea is tied down with an anchor, but is being swayed by a strong wind,
then it is regarded as a moving ship, which means that one may pray sitting
according to Abu Hanifa because it is regarded as a moving ship. Though
according to Abu Yusuf and Muhammad, he is to stand if he does not possess a
valid reason. Although, if the ship is not being swayed, then it deemed as a still
ship at shore and this is the most correct view. The ruling of a still ship tied at
shore is given next.


PIN NG fo CAN oye o gt OS ٩ BE Leo off le VU luc GAs jf V bth tb y » oil Oly
CIE Key J ١ Vy]dl fe pena HY]٦ ous! owe


If the ship is tied at shore, prayer is not permitted sitting if one has the ability to

stand according to the majority. And if one prays standing, and there is part of

the ship on the bottom of the ground, then the prayer is valid. If not, then prayer

is not permitted in it according to the preferred view on the matter unless it is not

possible to exit the ship, in which case, one may offer the prayer based on the

necessity. Though it is apparent in other Hanafi books, namely al-Hidaya and al-

Nihaya that prayer is permitted standing in a vessel which is tied at shore

regardless of whether it is touching the ground or not." Hence, if a ship is tied at

shore, one is to exit if he can. If he cannot, then he is permitted to pray onboard whilst

standing. If he can exit but opts to pray on board the ship, then his prayer is correct if he

prayed standing with part of the ship touching the ground. If no part of the ship is touching the
ground, then his prayer is not valid since he is able to exit the ship. This last point is identical
to a person who places a carriage upon a beast and then halts the beast and places logs
underneath the base of the carriage so that it has the same legal status as that of the ground.

The person then prays standing in the carriage because technically, the carriage is like that of
the ground because of the pillars that support it. Likewise, if part of the ship tied at shore
touches the ground, one may pray standing even though he is able to exit, because the ship or
boat has the same status as that of the ground. If no part is touching, then the prayer is invalid
since he can exit and pray on land.


In summary, a moving ship allows a person to pray in it standing according to the two jurists,
but sitting according to Abu Hanifa(even without a reason). And if the ship is anchored at sea
and is being swayed, it is regarded as a moving ship and is therefore subject to the same
disagreement.


If the ship is anchored at sea, though is not being swayed, then it is regarded as a still ship at
shore. A few rules are derived concerning a still ship at shore; if one offers prayer standing with
part of the ship on the ground, his prayer is valid. If not,(i.e. there is no part touching the
ground)then his prayer is invalid unless he is unable to exit the ship, in which case he may
offer the prayer standing. Additionally if a ship is anchored at sea and is still, one obviously
cannol exit the ship and is therefore allowed to offer the prayer based on the necessity. And
Allah knows best.





" Maraky al-Falah ٤٢١,

