١٧٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Hl,
The imamate of an immoral person is disliked due to his lack of emphasis in
religion.


gacdls


The imamate of an innovator in religion is disliked. Indeed, an innovator is one
who performs what the Prophet did not practice, preach or approve of and in
which there is no precedent.[Maraky al-Falah states.| Imam Muhammad reported
from Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf—that prayer behind the people of desite is not permitted,
whereas the most correct ruling is that it is lawful, though disliked so long as what
he innovates does not take him outside of the fold of Islam." It is therefore not
permissible to pray behind one who rejects the intercession of the Prophet or the
angels who record the actions of man, or the vision of God for the believers in the
hereafter, even if he says that God cannot be seen because He is exalted above all
things, as the Mu'tazila state. Equally, prayer behind an anthropomorphist is not
permitted, such as a person who says that God has a hand and leg similar to that
of His creation. Such a person is an innovator even if he says that God is a body
unlike all other bodies. In truth, God is neither a body nor substance. He is unlike
all things and nothing is like Him. Moreover, rejecting the leadership[khilafa]of
Abu Bakr is deemed unbelief just like one who rejects the Israh and Mi"raj.
Equally, it is not permissible to pray behind one who rejects the wiping of the
footgear or curses and swears at Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman or accuses A'ishah(may Allah be pleased with the Prophet's family and Companions). And it is not
permissible behind one who rejects something that is necessarily known in the
religion, given that it amounts to disbelief. Indeed, their interpretation of such
matters is disregarded."

aval Je play
It is disliked for the imam to lengthen the prayer to an extent where people detest
it. Rather one should perform the prayer according to the hadith of the Prophet((May the peace and blessings of God be upon him))[O People! Some of you
make others dislike good deeds. So whoever leads the people should shorten it].
Note: even if the believers do not mind the prayer being long, it is still disliked
due to the words of the Prophet[He who leads the prayer should make it short].*


al Jl acley
It is disliked for naked persons to perform the prayer in a group.
al lS ghey eLyi Ay cals of Lod,


" The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said "Pray behind every Muslim, pious or
impious." Abu Dawud ٥٩٤.

? Maraky al-Falah ١٧٤.

> Bukhari ٩٠.

* Bukhari[Maraky al-Falah ١٧٤].

