BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٠٣


Be meaning of qunut is supplication, and it is to say[O Allah we ask Your help,

our forgiveness and Your guidance. In You we belicve, on You we rely, You we Praise with
leah apa pee You and not ungrateful, and disown, abandon him who
commits outrages against You. O Allah, You alone do we worship, to You we pray and
prostrate. You we strive for and hasten to obey, hoping for Your Mercy and fearing Your
punishment. Truly, Your earnest punishment shall overtake the unbelievers, and may the peace
and blessings be upon Muhammad, our Prophet and his family], and the follower is to
recite the qunut like the imam.


Vs dat Shy ane Gye ey gals dilarsciey ٩h SG pa le de lel GLY ¢ ٥ ١٥١
Oe DNs ٦ ule
If the imam begins to recite an extra supplication after the first one, Imam Abu
Yusuf said, "Zhe follower is to join the imam and recite the supplication with him"
whereas Imam Muhammad said, "The follower is not to join the imam, but rather should
say, 'Amin' only."
cule ope ju Vy Coly p SLY ail thle Ai Vy a Hb]ah ٥ y Chel(i
pny arcs aly dat Ld fo ail fro y ILS y by SLs


The extra supplication is[O Allah guide us along with those You have guided, pardon us
along with those You have pardoned, be an ally to us along with those whom You are an ally
to and bless for us that which You have bestowed. Protect us from the devil. You have decreed
for verily You decree and none can decree over You. For surely, he whom You show allegiance
to is never abased and he whom You take as an enemy is never honoured and might. O our
Lord, Blessed and Exalted are You, and may the peace and blessings be upon Muhammad
and his family and his Companions}.
te BEV hy BI GLI, help OW SD del Ql Spo gl td ey
obobook sow oles,


Whoever does not know the qunut is to say,[O Allah, forgive me]three times or[Our
Lord, give us good in this life and good in the hereafter and keep us away from the torment of
the fire]or[O Lord, O Lord, O Lord].

doce bade feng ABM GUS Le ٥ Sane Oi eeall G Cok ya GSI NBL


If one follows an imam who recites the qunut in the dawn prayer, he is to perform
it with the imam silently according to the most evident view and keep his hands
down by his sides.


der Y ESM op eed; Grd cd dy cre Ver i Jes te Sis FN Gol ٥ NS y
SA abe ٣٦ os ill Ny)ped try £٩٥

