٣١٤ BOOK III: FUNERALS


ee
The Reality Of A Martyr(Shahid)According To Islamic Law
Gace abel oo dl pall


A person who is killed has died in his fixed time according to AhlasSunna wal-
Jama'a. That is, he has died in the time Allah decreed for him regardless of the
cause of death.


Bry sl fier hy AS pe Be pall ol je bl pas gt al fal plo At fal ab oo ett
Be toy dye dln y olidy par ٦ SLE WIL ee DIS y ¢ stone Line Ab plas abd gl slay ٤٥ pall
w tl Laat


A Shahid is one who is killed by combatants of war, or rebels or by a highway
robber(regardless of the murder weapon), or is killed by a thief in his home at
night(or day)even if it is with a heavy object, such as a rock or solid entity.
Additionally, one is deemed a Shahid if he is found on the battlefield and the
signs of injury are manifest, such as damage, breakage, burning or blood from the
eyes or nose; or he is killed deliberately by a Muslim from oppression with a
sharp instrument, such as a knife/sword. And in all these cases, the person killed is
Muslim, mature and free from menstrual periods, postnatal bleeding and sexual
impurity[janaba]and is not murtatha, meaning his death is not delayed until after
the end of battle, it is before. If for example one remains alive for a period of time
while the battle is still ongoing and then dies, he is regarded as a Shahid. Though
if he lives on and dies after the battle ends, then he is regarded as murtatha.
Murtatha according to scholars is one who is carried away from the battlefield
injured, though still alive and dies after the battle ends."


Ang ae owas
What Is Done With A Shahid


The Shahid is shrouded with his blood and clothes, is prayed over and not given a
bath. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased with him))said: "The Apostle of Allah((God
bless him and give him peace))commanded to remove weapons and skins from
the martyrs of Uhud, and that they should be buried with their blood and
clothes."? The deceased is removed of effects that are not suitable as shrouding
such as armour, weapons, wool or sponges, as the Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))ordered in the above hadith.





'Nur al-Idah ١٨٨
'Abu Dawud ٣١٢٨.


BOOK Il: FUNERALS ٣١٥


wl b patry lps


One is to add or take away from the clothes of the Shahid if he is not wearing


enough to fulfil the sunna or is wearing in excess of the sunna shrouding.
lent Ep ٠ Ss
It is disliked to remove all of the clothes of the Shahid. This is so that the marks


of battle remain on him.


The Following Are To Be Washed According To Abu Hanifa
cLid gl Late sili pe shlie she Lio! puny


The Shahid is washed if he is killed in the state of sexual impurity{junubda]or is a
boy, insane or in the state of menstrual periods[hayd]or postnatal bleeding[nifas]according to Abu Hanifa." The reason is Handhalah Ibn Rahib(Allah be pleased
with him)was martyred on the day of Uhud, thereupon the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[I saw the angels washing Handhalah Ibn Abi
Amir between the sky and the ground with nimbus and water]. Abu Sa'id then
said, "We went and observed him and his head was dripping with water." The
Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)then sent us to inform his wife,
upon which she informed us that he was in a state of sexual impurity].'? And the
reason with respect to the boy and insane is that the sword compensates for the
washing of persons who are characterised with sin, though for a boy and insane
person they are free of this attribute of sin. Hence, they are not included in the
meaning of the Shuhada of Uhud.


AS yall cy JB gl fans yay Brad Oy cae gl es sha yl eb shops sl sl Ob S Al Lad te £٥)! JI
BS PWS, AS sh s ptt sl pu sl gol gle Poteby GY


Likewise, a person whose death is delayed until after the battle has ceased is to be
washed. This is called irtithath. This person is no longer regarded as being in the
category of the Shuhada of Uhud for the reason that he has used the faculties of
life. The person will still be rewarded as a Shahid but will not be considered
among those martyrs who are exempt from the major bath before burial. The
status of irtithath is achieved by eating, drinking, sleeping or taking medicines
after the battle has ended. It is also staying alive until the time of a written prayer
passes during which one is sane. Likewise, one is regarded murtatha by being
transferred from the battlefield to seek treatment, not for fear of being crushed on
by a horse, or he left instructions preparing for death, or he sold, bought or spoke
many words, in which case he is given the status of irtithath and is subsequently
washed. However, with respect to the ruling of the hereafter, one is deemed a


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٤.
? Ibn Habban ١٥/٤٩٥, Hakim al-Mustadrak ٣/٢٢٥.


V١٦ BOOK II]: FUNERALS


Shahid and will receive the reward promised for a Shahid." The reason one is
deemed murtatha is because he has availed the faculties of life and has been
governed by the rule of the living. The Shuhada(Martyrs)of Uhud died thirsty
even though water was being circulated amongst them. They did not accept it for
fear that they might lose this honour of Shahada. They were removed from the
battlefield so that animals would not trample on them. Beyond this, they did not
enjoy any rest.'


١S wd Yo dela ١٥ Ssb sey ol,


If however, one of the abovementioned points occurs(such as eating or drinking)before the battle ends, then one is not classified as murtatha by such actions;
rather he is deemed a Shahid


ale frag og٨ gl tome J sh[Ub tow al ler dy pall GL oy peey


A person who dies in the city(or other place)and the cause of death is unknown;
that is, it is not known whether he was killed because of oppression or because
someone exercised the penalty of hadd upon him(legally executed by order of the
judge for crimes committed)or whether it was a result of an eye for an eye, then
such a person is bathed and prayed over. Such persons are not considered
Shuhada.


In sum, a complete Shahid(in this life and the hereafter)is one who is sane,
mature, Muslim, free from major impurity, who dies after being struck(to the
extent that he does not eat, drink, sleep, seek medical treatment or removed
from the battlefield alive - rather he is removed dead). The ruling according
to Abu Hanifa is that he is not bathed and is shrouded with his clothes after
being stripped of that which is not fitting for shrouding, such as weapons,
armour and the like. He is prayed upon and buried with his blood and clothes.
The second type of Shahid is regarded as a Shahid of the hereafter; and it is
the one who is missing one of the above conditions, such as being killed in the
state of sexual impurity, menses, or is a boy, insane or did not die after being
struck(but lived on), or is killed by accident. Such persons are deemed
Shuhada of the hereafter but are not classified as complete Shuhada. They
will receive the reward that Allah promised the Shahid. Such persons are
bathed, enshrouded, and the prayer over them is like the prayer of others.
Persons similar to Shuhada of the hereafter are those who die by drowning,
burning, or one who dies as a result of the collapse of a wall, or during the
path of seeking knowledge, tuberculosis, fever and so forth. They are to be
washed, shrouded and prayed upon even though they are Shuhada of the


hereafter.°


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٥٤.
* Al-Hidayah.
* Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٢٩٧-٢٩٨.


The Chapter
of 'Fasting


SS ASM pac MAG ily iS ass pal ApS yas Ag Ma


PAT ey v EY av


٣١٨ BooK IV: FASTING


Book IV: The Chapter Of Fasting
CONTENTS:


The Reality Of Fasting(Definition)The Reason Which Obligates Ramadan

Its Ruling And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
Conditions That Obligate One To Fast Ramadan

The Conditions that Validate Fasting

The Pillars of Fasting

The Outcome of Fasting


The Types of Fast And The Description Of Each Type


The Types Of Fast For Which It Is Conditional To Be Specific In The
Intention And To Form It At Night; And When It Is Not Conditional
The Fast That Does Not Require A Specific Intention
The Fast That Does Require A Specific Intention


Sighting The Moon And Fasting On The Day Of Doubt
Establishing The Moon Of Ramadan
The Day Of Doubt
The Ruling Upon One Who Sights The Moon Of Ramadan
Verification Of The Moon With An Obstruction In The Sky
Verification Of The Moon With No Obstruction In The Sky
Establishing The Remainder Of The Months
The Ruling Of Seeing The Moon From Different Places


That Which Does Not Nullify The Fast
What Nullifies The Fast And Requires Expiation And A Makeup Day


The Expiation And That Which Excuses It
The Expiation


What Nullifies The Fast Without Requiring Expiation
When It Is Necessary To Refrain From Eating In The Day


What Is Disliked When Fasting And What Is Recommended
Disliked Actions During Fasting
What Is Not Disliked When Fasting
That Which is Recommended When Fasting


Fortuitous Circumstances
The Ill, The Pregnant And The Breastfeeding
The Traveller


٣٢١
٣٢١
٣٢٢
٣٢٣
٣٢٣
٣٢٣
٣٢٣
٣٢٣


٣٢٤
٣٢٨


٣٢٨
٣٣١


٣٣١
٣٣١
٣٣٢
٣٣٣
٣٣٤
٣٣٥
٣٣٦
٣٣٦


٣٣٨


٣٤١


٣٤٤
٣٤٥


٣٤٦


٣٥٢


٣٥٣
٣٥٣
٣٥٤
٣٥٥


٣٥٦
٣٥٦
٣٥٧


BooK IV: FASTING ٣١٩


What Is And Is Not Required Of One Who Breaks Fast Due To A Reason ٣٥٧


The Elderly ٣٥٩
One Who Vowed To Fast His Entire Life And Weakened As A Result ٣٥٩
When Is The Fidya Not Valid ٣٦٠
The Permissibility Of Breaking Voluntary Fast With Or Without A Reason ٣٦٠
Fulfilling One's Promise Such As Fasting, Prayers And Other ٣٦١
When Is One Required To Fulfil His Vow ٣٦١
The Ruling Of Vowing To Fast The Two Days Of Eid ٣٦٣
That Which Is Disregarded In A Vow And That Which Is Binding ٣٦٣
Religious Retreat « T"tikaf » ٣٦٥
The Definition of Religious Retreat ٣٦٥
The Types Of Religious Retreat ٣٦٦
When Is It Permissible To Exit The Masjid In I'tikaf ٣٦٧
That Which Is Disliked During Religious Retreat ٣٦٨
What Is Unlawful In P"tikaf And Its Nullification ٣٦٨


The Legality Of I'tikaf, Its Status And Wisdom ٣٧٠


٣٢٠ Book IV: FASTING


BOOK I"V: FASTING ٣٢١


eral ob J rai

