٥٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


made wudu, the wudu he would perform for prayer))." The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[If anyone approached his spouse, and then
wanted to repeat sexual intercourse, then he should perform wudu between
them].'


aa
In a state of anger, it is recommended to make ablution. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said((Anger is from Satan and the Shayatin are


created from fire, and verily you extinguish fire with water, so if any of you
becomes angry, he should perform wudu)).'


oss


It is recommended when one wishes to recite Quran from memory; and as
discussed earlier if one intends to touch the Quran, it is compulsory to perform
ablution. .


alyyy Cudmy


It is recommended for the reading of hadith and when narrating it based on the
honour it has been given and what it represents.


ele alo
It is recommended for the studying of Sacred knowledge due to its status.
Lbs y ULL, lil,


It is recommended for the adhan and tgama of prayer as well as for a sermon,
whether it is a Friday sermon or a sermon on marital relations or other.


ply ale ail fro Us abs


When visiting the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))it is
recommended to observe wudu.


٣٣ Aly Laxall Crs ry br ds ٩٥


It is recommended when standing on Arafah, and for the running between the
Safa and Marwah in hajj because of the esteem they have been given.


١٩٥% pt JSIy


" Ahmad ٣/٢١, Muslim ٣٠٧.
? Ahmad in his Musnad ٣/٢١.
* Abu Dawud ٤٧٦٦.


BOOK ١: PURIFICATION ٥٩


After eating camel meat it is recommended to make ablution. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))was asked about wudu after eating the meat of
the camel, and he said[Make wudu from it]." Note: The Hanafi view on this
matter is such, so that one is free from the disagreement of the scholars, such as
the view of Imam Ahmad who held it as a requirement.


Al pal pao ١٣١[Sel GE ye oy Sly
It is recommended to make wudu after any act which is subject to disagreement,
so that one can be free from the differences of the scholars, such as the touching
of a female. Note: touching a female does not nullify wudu, whether she is a
believer or not, but in order to avoid the differences of the scholars, it is
recommended. In addition, it is preferred to observe wudu if a person touches his
private part with the palm of his hand even though this does not break wudu,


since Shafi'i, Malik and Ahmad said, "Whoever touches his private part must
perform wudu.""


spd gl ail
Nullifications Of Wudu
Labi te le we Sl aly
Twelve things nullify wudu, and they are;
ce ba Vs tt pe ee


١/ Anything that exits from the front and back passage nullifies wudu except the


air which comes out from the front passage(of a female)and this is the most
sound view.


٠٢ Ab)ne Cp FOV watt y
٢/ Giving birth without seeing blood nullifies ablution. Imam Abu Yusuf and
Imam Muhammad said: "This is not classified as nifas(postnatal bleeding)because in order for it to be deemed as such, there must be blood. However, she
must make ablution due to the wetness and dampness." Though Abu Hanifa said,


"As a precaution she is to perform the major bath." Note: it is rare for a woman to
give birth without the sight of blood, though if it does, the wudu breaks.


TI SUA pe op Wl ley

٣/ The flowing of an impurity such as blood or pus from anywhere else other than
the two passages nullifies wudu. Imam Shafi'i maintained that whatever comes
out of the body, from other than the two passages, does not nullify wudu. The


Hanafi basis is the report of the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)"Ablution is from all types of flowing blood."*





" At-Tirmidhi; the Book of Purification ٨١.
٢ Maraky al-Falah, ٥٢.
* AlAyni, vol, ١, ٢٦٢.

