١٧٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


This is followed by reciting the verse al-Kursy and the mu'aueihatain, which are
the last two surahs of the Quran, as Uqbah Ibn Amir(God bepleased with him)said: the Apostle of Allah((God grant him blessings and peace]commanded me
to recite the mu'awwithat after every prayer." One is then toforify God thirty
three times(uttering "Glory be to Allah" — Subhana Allah), praie God thirty three
times(uttering "Al praise be to Allah" — Althamdu Lil Lah)and mapify His greatness
thirty three times(saying "God is great" — Allahu akbar)after which one is to say,
"None has the right to be worshipped except Allah, Alone, without part. To Him belongs
all Sovereignty and Praise, and He is over all things, Omnipotent." Twreafter, one is to
supplicate for himself and the Muslims with his hands raised and is to wipe his
face with his palms upon completion of the supplication. The Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))said[When you supplicate to God, spplicate with the
inward sides of your palms, and do not supplicate using their backsides. When
you have completed your prayer, wipe your face with them]."


٣>.aJl daw L wh
Nullifications Of Prayer *
Lt O py S٣١٨ yey
There are sixty-eight things that nullify prayer;
Uns Mpg by U١


Speaking a word during prayer, forgetfully or by mistake, renders the prayer void.
For example, one may have wanted to say 'O People' intending a verse of Quran
but instead said 'O Zaid'. The Prophet((God grant him peace and blessings))said[These prayers are such, that it is not correct to utter the talk of people in it].'
Imam Shafi'i disagrees with respect to the one who makes a mistake or forgets.


Supplication with words that resemble the general speech of the people
invalidates the prayer.
Lal py dol dm pI


———
" Abu Dawud ١٥١٨.

? Ybn Majah ١١٨١.

٣ Lexically, the word fasad means, contrary to right. Though according to the Hanafi scholars
of jurisprudence, it is the term commonly used in relation to acts of worship[{badat}and stands
in the same degree as the term 'buélan"(void, invalid). For example; one may say, "this prayer is
fasid"(unsound, corrupt), or "this hajj is fasid," or "this fast is fasid." And these sayings are the
same as saying, "this prayer is dafil"(invalid)or, "this hajj is dati," and "this fast is basil."
However, with respect to dealings, this is not the case. Hence, the term fased and butlan are
regarded as the same with respect to worship['ibadat]though not with respect to dealings{mu 'amalat]. Nur al-Idah ١٠٦.

* Muslim ٥٣٧.


BOOK H: PRAYER ١٧٩


To utter the salam with the intention of greeting others, nullifies the prayer even if
one does so forgetfully for the reason that it is speech.


iniLall yl st IIo,


Replying to someone's salam with the tongue or by shaking hands renders the
prayer void, even if one does so forgetfully. However, a gesture with the hand only,
without shaking hands or talking, is disliked according to all jurists, though the prayer
remains sound. The Prophet was reported to have performed this while praying.!
Jabir narrated: The messenger of Allah sent me for some job. Then I returned
and joined him as he was going(on a ride). Qutaibah said that he was performing
prayer while he rode. I greeted him and he gestured to me. When he completed
the prayer, he called me and said: "You greeted me just now while I was praying."
Qutaibah said: "The Prophet was heading eastbound when he was praying."


ASI Jatt


Excessive movement nullifies prayer, and this excessive movement is judged by
an onlooker in whom it appears in his view that one is not engaged in prayer.
Moreover, excessive movement is estimated as three continuous movements, such
that if one walks three continuous steps, the prayer is null and void. However, if
one separates the three movements by walking one step and then stopping, then
walking another step and pausing in an effort to conform with the rest of the lines,
the prayer remains sound. And it does not matter whether the movements are
intentional or inadvertent."


AL ye ptrall yt


Turning one's chest away from the direction of prayer. Note: turning one's chest
away from the direction of prayer[giéla]renders the prayer void if there is no
reason to do so. However, if there is a reason, such as a person who accidentally
broke his wudu and consequently turned from the qibla to make wudu so he
could return and continue the prayer. This is termed bina'. In this case, one is


pardoned.®
SB by ded CoE cp og Joly


Eating something from the outside of the mouth invalidates the prayer even if it is
small. The reason this is the case is because one is able to abstain from such a
thing.

Lath pli pay cilid Gul sly
Eating that which is between the teeth nullifies prayer if it is the size of a
chickpea.


" Muslim.
* ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim asSalkini ٢٩٧.
* AL Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٢٩٧.

