٩٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


if one neglects the wiping without the possibility of harm or aggravation, it is
valid, and the prayer is not deemed void. As for the two companions(Abu Yusuf
and Muhammad), Shafi'i and the majority of jurists, they held that it is obligatory
to wipe on the basis that the Prophet wiped over his bandage and that when Ali
broke his forearm during the battle of Uhud, or on the day of Khaybar, the
Prophet ordered him to wipe over the bandages.


They also used as proof that analogical reasoning(giyas| applies here due to the
wiping over the footgear[khuffain|." Abu Hanifa maintained that wiping is an
exchange from washing and that washing beneath the bandage is not necessary if
it becomes exposed, though this is contrary to what is beneath the footgear[Ahuffain]; and he held that the hadith of Ali does not impose the obligation on the
basis that it is a solitary narration[khabar ahad]. He therefore maintained that the
proof is speculative[dAanni]and not decisive{gat 't].'


Furthermore, with respect to the amount required to be wiped, Abu Hanifa held
that it is sufficient to wipe the majority of the bandage and that man has not been
requested to wipe the entirety, given that it would be burdensome and lead to
aggravation of the injury. Shafi'i held that the entirety is to be wiped with water
and that partial wiping does not suffice. This is because the limb requires
complete washing, so likewise with wiping.


Aaah ylvae Spy dtl yo ٥٤ be fe renal! a٥ y


If removal of the bandage would cause aggravation or further harm, then it is
sufficient to wipe the part of the body that is visible between the bandages without
having to remove the bandage. Such an act is undertaken to prevent water from
trickling upon the injury that may result in infection or otherwise. If no harm
would be caused by untying the bandage, then one is to undo it and wash the


unharmed area and wipe the injury; but if wiping(the injury)would cause harm,
then one is to leave it.*


Therefore, in order to wipe over the splint, cast or bandage, it is conditional that
washing or wiping the injured limb not be possible, for fear of causing
aggravation, an increase in pain, or a delay in recovery. Likewise, one must not be
able to remove the bandage or cast for fear of causing further harm or a delay in
recovery. If one believes no adverse consequences will occur from removing the
support, then wiping over the bandage or splint is not permissible. Moreover, the
bandage must not go beyond the affected area. If it does, then one will be
required to undo it and wash the unaffected area behind it provided no harm will
follow."


" Maraky al-Falah ٨٤ / Tabarani - Masnad ash-Shamiyin ١/٢٦٢ / Ibn Majah ٦٥٧.
" Al-Ikhtiyar ٤٠-٤١ | Al-Figh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٥.

* Maraky al-Falah ٨٤.

' ALFigh al-Islamy - Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٣٤.

