BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٧


For the purpose of clarity, the Hanafis stipulate three conditions in order for the

intention of tayammum for prayer to be valid. One must intend one of three

things: the first is to intend purification from one's impure state. In this

stipulation, one does not have to specify his condition, whether it be major or

minor impurity, for intending purification alone is sufficient. The second is to

intend prayer to be lawful for oneself or to lift one's impurity. The third is to
intend a specific act of worship that requires purification(an act that cannot be
valid unless one is pure)such as prayer, the prostration of recitation or the funeral
prayer. If one merely intends tayammum without consideration of one of the
above, then prayer is not valid with such an intention. Furthermore, Imam Shafi'i
held that one is required to intend tayammum to perform the obligation and that
without an intention offering the obligation, it is not valid. According to this view,
if one intends in his tayammum, a non-obligatory prayer or an optional prayer, it
does not validate the obligatory one. If one intends the obligatory prayer, then it
serves as a valid intention for the optional one. However, in performing
tayammum for an obligatory prayer, one must intend its being obligatory; though
not necd specify whether, for example, it is the noon prayer of the mid-afternoon
prayer.


Summary Diagram


Intention is conditional
for tayammum and _ is
required at the time one
strikes the earth.


However, in order for this intent
to be valid, one must be Muslim,
sane and have knowledge about
what he intends.


With respect to the intention for
ritual prayer, one must intend
one of three things in order for
his tayammum to be correct for
prayer and they are: a)the
intention of purification, b)the
intent to make prayer permissible
for oneself and c)to intend an act
of worship that originally requires
purity, in which case - this will be
sufficient for prayer.





: AlFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١١٦ | Reliance of the Traveller ٩٠.

