BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥١


will not be correct given the absence of differentiation(from the sleeping or
insane person). Furthermore, if it is recited from an intoxicated person, it
becomes imposed upon him to prostrate as well as those who hear it from him.


Sarally plat ope pela FV)The prostration of recital is not necessitated if it is heard from a bird or an echo.
A person may have a pet bird that mimics others.


Gey SSNS oy Gop est Gh


With What Thing Can The Prostration Be Carried Out? And When To Perform It


The verse requiring prostration can be recited and offered within a prayer and
outside a prayer. If it is recited outside of prayer, it is not required immediately
and may be delayed for some time. Though if one reads it, but performs it after
concluding his recitation or one hears it being recited from another person and
then travels home and prostrates, then he has fulfilled it. However, it is somewhat
disliked to delay the prostration from the time of its recitation without an excuse,
because one may forget it with the passing of time.

If it is recited within prayer, it is required immediately; and the one praying may
either conclude his recitation with the verse of prostration, at which point it is not
conditional that he offer a specific prostration for it; rather he may offer it in the
original bowing of the prayer if he intends to perform it in that posture. Likewise, if
he concludes his recitation with the verse of prostration, then he may offer it in
the original prostration of the prayer, whether he intends to execute it within that
posture or not.


However, if one does not conclude his recitation with the verse of prostration, and
reads three verses or more after it, then one must now offer a specific prostration
for what he read and the original prostration of prayer does not suffice. And after
having offered a specific prostration, it is recommended that one rise and recite at least
three verses or more, then bow and conclude the remainder of his prayer.'


lad pry sal £٩٩ Beall ٣ > ٣ f° ٢ S٣٩


The prostration of recital may be carried out with either an additional bow or
additional prostration in the prayer, other than the original bowing or prostration
of prayer. It is however recommended to execute the prostration of recital with a
prostration and not a bow. And if the prostration verse is the last verse one reads,(after which one offers a specific prostration for his recitation), then he is to recite Quran
after rising from it, even if it is two verses from another surah. This is so one does
not construct the bowing upon the prostration immediately upon rising from it. If
however, one rises from it and then immediately bows, it is disliked."


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٦.
? ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini, ٣٣٥.
> Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٧.


٢٥٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER





Lal pO}Seal ¢ ٥٥)lee es jt
In the case where one stops reading immediately after reciting the verse of
prostration; or does not read more than two verses after reciting it, then it can be
carried out with the original bowing of prayer, provided one intends it within that
posture. Meaning, the original bowing of prayer suffices provided one intends to
execute the prostration of recital in that posture.[Maraky al-Falah states. To avoid
confusion amongst the followers, the imam of a prayer as well as his followers are
to carry out the recital prostration within the original bowing of the prayer. The
same applies to a silent prayer." Moreover, it is mentioned in at-Tatarikhiyya that if
one recites the verse of prostration in a silent prayer, then it is better to fulfil the
obligation during the bowing posture in order to prevent confusion amongst the
people; and if the prayer is an audible one, then to offer prostration for the
recitation is superior."
cell oe SSL SIS gb ebay ١G CD by ١ Oly Dopey

It is also accomplished with the original prostration of prayer even if one does not
intend to carry it out in that posture, provided one concludes his recitation with
the verse of prostration and does not read more than two verses after reciting it.
In other words, if one concludes his recitation with the verse of prostration and does not read
more than two verses after reciting it, then he may carry out his obligation in the original
prostration of the prayer even if he did not intend it therein. However, if one recites more
than two verses after reciting the verse of prostration, then it can no longer be
carried out with the original bowing or original prostration of the prayer; rather
one must now offer a specific prostration or a specific bow for what he read.'


dpe SS SI OL BSG BAI oe tree ٥ FT AAS)Deal gd ee pile hi pel os Qe ys
Weel rtnnny Wi[SDS jade gles UpenS yp lao grees dey ay GATT OLy ٦ ae dees Ub aed


If a person hears the recital prostration from an imam, and did not become a
follower at all or he does become a follower joining the imam in a rak'ah of prayer
that did not include the recitation and performance of the prostration, then the
hearer is to prostrate alone after the prayer according to the most evident view.
Though if the person joins the imam before he prostrates, then he is to prostrate
with the imam. Whereas, if the person joins the imam after he prostrated, though
his joining was in the same rak'ah the verse was recited in, then the person is
judged as having accomplished the prostration as he has caught the rak'ah and is
under no obligation to make the prostration. For example, if a person hears the
verse in the first rak'ah, but joins the imam in the second, then he is to prostrate
after the prayer. If a person joins the imam before he prostrates for the verse, he is
to prostrate with him. If a person joins the imam after he prostrates, though it is
in the same rak'ah he recited the verse and performed its prostration, then he has
accomplished the prostration by catching the rak'ah.


Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٧.
* Radd al-Muhtar.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٨٧.

