BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٩


Branches
WY cd Mog lot ٢ A IS pshey


A person may perform as many voluntary prayers as he likes before the
obligatory one if he is sure its time will not pass. If not, then he is to relinquish
this.


BSNS pty daly PLY aby ٢» ii yy SE LS, wh! Sal coy


If a person finds the imam in the bowing of a rak'ah, and then offers takbir(Allahu akbar)and remains standing until the imam raises his head from the
bowing, then he has not caught the rak'ah and is required to make it up. Note: In
any situation, if the imam raises his head from bowing without the follower
joining him, the rak'ah is considered unperformed and the follower will have to
make it up. Additionally, if the follower is descending into the bowing posture
while the imam raises his head, the same ruling holds. There must be partnership
in the act in order for it to be valid. Ibn Umar((God be pleased with him))said[If
one catches the imam's bowing by joining him in that posture before he lifts his
head, then verily one has caught the rak'ah, and if the imam lifts his head before
one made the bow, then one has lost a rak'ah]."


VV ٦ ene ab ale]٤٥ jal Bat gs ٥ FL PLY Bel ٥ tee aalal Lb aS Ly


If the imam has recited that which is required in prayer(namely, one long verse
or three short verses)thereafter, a follower bows before the imam does, then, if
the imam joins him in the bowing, the followers bow is deemed valid even though
it is prohibitively disliked to proceed ahead of his imam. This dislike is due to the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said((Do not
overtake me in bowing or prostration)).? However, if the imam does not join the
follower in the bowing or the follower bows before the imam completes the
recitation required, then the follower's bow is invalid and he must perform the
bow again, and if he does not and continues the prayer, it is void.°


SPN dele pate OLS ١٣]VI fea cm ٤٥ OST tree ary Ho Sy


It is disliked to depart the mosque after the adhan has been announced until the
prayer is performed, except if one is attending another group prayer such as an
imam or the caller of prayer who is committed to another group prayer. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[One does not leave a mosque
after the adhan, except a hypocrite or a man who had a need and intended to
return].


Dare(٤d Sacer elias gl Gary St fo del bt Codd II)SOY Io te Le dey C= ls


" Abdur-Razak ٢/٢٧٩[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٢].

? Ibn Habban ٣/٦٠٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٢.

* Abu Dawud and al-Baihagi, Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٣.


٢٤٠ BOOK Il: PRAYER


There is no dislike if one departs the mosque after having prayed alone, except if
the congregation commences before his departure for the dhuhr and 'isha prayer;
in these cases, one is to join the group offering voluntary prayer. This is because
one is permitted to join the dhuhr and 'sha with the intention of a voluntary prayer
and another reason is to evade a position of blame and accusation for avoiding
the group prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[Whoever believes in Allah and the Last Day must not stand in the position of
being accused(by others)]."


Uplre sue de fre Ys


One is not to offer the same prayer he has already performed. These are the
words articulated in the hadith mentioned by al-Zayla'i, and scholars held
different interpretations as to the meaning. Some said it means: "One cannot pray
the same obligatory twice for the seeking of rewards." Others maintained that it
means: "One must not abandon the prayer and begin a new one the moment he
believes he has ruined it, for the reason that such actions would encourage satanic
whispers." Others maintain it means: "One is not to repeat the obligatory prayer
believing he has not offered the first one properly."


SN d pre
The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness
٩ gl >a rae


The Ruling Of The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness And Its Cause
٢٢S OLy lyfe arly SA edly degre: Ole


If a person forgetfully omits a wajib element of prayer, it becomes necessary to
perform two prostrations, the tashahhud and the finishing salams, and this is all
that is required even if one omits multiple acts.' The prostrations of forgetfulness
was legally established to mend a defect that occurred in prayer and for that
reason it is deemed necessary to perform. The way it is performed is as follows:
when the person sits for the last sitting of prayer the equivalent time of tashahhud,
he is to observe one salam to the right after which he is to perform the two
prostrations. This is followed by the recitation of the tashahhud, ibrahimiyya and
supplication and is concluded with the finishing salams. If one performs the
prostrations of forgetfulness prior to the salam, it is somewhat disliked. Note:


according to the jurists — forgetfulness, doubt and oversight are all regarded as
one and the same in relation to the rule.





' AlAjluni fi Kashf al-Kafa' ٢/٣٣٣[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٣].
? Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٣.


* The same rule applies if one delays, commits excess or deficiency with respect to a wajib
element, not a sunna one.

