BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٣٣


ale one they sl bbb jel Vy


Likewise, it is not permitted to use water that has lost its essence(or nature)through cooking, or through the water being overwhelmed(or dominated)by
another substance. The nature of water is to be thin and easy flowing, and if it
loses this nature through cooking or due to a substance defeating the water, then
this change renders the water unfit for wudu, such as when one cooks lentils in
the water and allows it to dry, it becomes hardened, which then deems it invalid
to use. Note: water may be defeated by solid or liquid substances.


Ad OS
That Which Overwhelms The Water
heey iy ge Wl hep AL dase ELL,
Pm ٣٩٩٩ YS y OI Ab ٥S dalow YS silo yi pai per Vy


When mixed with a solid substance, the water is overwhelmed when it loses its
thin and easy flowing nature, in which case it is not fit for ablution. If however,
the water retains its flowing nature even after mixing with a solid, such as saffron,
fruit or tree leaves, it remains permissible to use even if the water loses all its
qualities such as colour, smell or taste. This means that if a solid such as leaves or
apples mix with the water, but the water retains its flowing nature, then it does
not affect the status of the water, even if some characteristics of the water change,
such as its colour. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))stated the
following words regarding the man who fell down from his camel and died[Wash
him with water and lotus leaves, and shroud him in two garments]." This indicates
that if objects such as lotus leaves fall in the water it is of no harm, for the water
has retained its essence.


apelin Dash Vy pabally Ol a)US dad lie y A)tle ye to ty cine yo gpl, SUSU LL,
Jets ox ٤ eb cr mes
When water is mixed with a liquid substance that has characteristics, such as
taste, colour and smell, the water is overwhelmed when the following occurs; there
are some liquids that have two characteristics, such as milk, which has colour and
taste but no smell. When one of these two appears in the water, it is regarded as
overwhelmed. Additionally, there are liquids that consist of three characteristics
such as vinegar, which has smell, taste, and colour. When two of these three
appear, the water is deemed overwhelmed. Hence, when one from two appears
and when two from three appears, the water is deemed unfit because it has been
dominated. Therefore, when liquid substances mix with the water, it is assessed by the


qualities of taste, colour, and smell and when solids mix with the water, it ts assessed by its
qualities of thinness and flowing nature.


" Bukhari ١٢٦٨

