BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٢٩





The author of al-Hidayah(then)resolved the issue confirming in the books al-
Tajnis and al-Mazid: that if a person is unable to indicate with his head for more
than five prayers and still maintains his understanding of communication, then he is
not required to make up the prayers, and this view is held as the most sound
according to Imam Qadikhan and others like him in the book al-Muhit. This was
also the opted view of Shaykh al-Islam and Fakhr alIslam(asSarakhsy). In
addition, the book Adh-Dhahiriya states that "J¢ is the dearest report" which the
fatwa coincides with. It is also the opted view in the book al-Khilasah; and in the
book of al-Yanaabi' and al-Badai' it is deemed the soundest judgment and al-
Walwaliji held this view. Hence, if one is unable to nod for five prayer or less, they
are postponed whilst prayers in excess of five need not be made up in the soundest view.


Branches


axle ycbiy cme y dy


It is not valid to indicate with the eyes, eyebrows, or heart, and if one does so, it is
not correct because prostration is linked with the head, not with the eyes,
eyebrows, or heart. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace said))[If
the sick is unable to pray standing, then he may pray sitting; and if he is unable to
pray sitting, then he may pray on his back and if he is unable to do this, then
Allah has accepted his reason]. Scholars differed with respect to the last point of
the hadith which reads: Allah has accepted his reason. Some scholars hold that
this means; that his prayer is delayed and others maintain that it means he is
required to make up his prayers later and some maintain that prayer is excused
from him in that state. The author maintains that one is not required to make up
the prayers and this is the saying of the majority." This is contrary to the
Madhhab of Imam Shafi'i which allows a person to indicate with such things, such
as one's eyes.


ALVU NEU Lo > sry & ٩٥ ye joey plat le jai oly


If one is able to stand, but unable to bow and prostrate, then he is to offer the
prayer through indication whilst seated. This means that one is to bow and
prostrate by nodding his head whilst seated should he be unable to do so
normally.


٣G SLE hy pd le ee oe de ٦ Oly


If one begins the prayer in sound health, but is then overcome by illness, he is to
continue the prayer in the posture he is able, even if it is through indication, and
this is the most correct view.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٨.

