١٥٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


For the fajr and dhuhy prayer, the surah that follows the Fatiha is to be from the
lengthy part of the mufassal section. The mufassal section is the last seven sections
of the Quran which begins from surah al-Hujurat to surah an-Nas, and its lengthy
part is from surah al-Hujurdat to surah al-Buruj; and for the 'asr and 'sha prayer,
the surah is to be from its medium part which is from surah al-Buryj to surah al-
Bayyinnah, and for the maghrib prayer it is sunna to recite from its smallest part
which is from surah al-Bayyinnah to the end, and this is provided one is a
resident.


Lali lS JolLesy ye tay


If one is a traveller, then he may recite any surah he wishes and this is the sunna.
The same applies if there is a desperate need, in that it is sunna to recite any
surah. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[When I stand for
prayer, I intend to pray it long but on hearing the cries of a child, I cut it short, as
I dislike to trouble the child's mother]." There is also a report that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Recited the mu'awwidhatain in the dawn
prayer whilst in travel].


htt pl G Ug VII,


To lengthen only the first rak'ah of the dawn prayer is sunna, the wisdom being
that the dawn prayer is a time of sleep and unawareness and one prolongs the first
rak'ah in order for the people to make the prayer and increase the gathering.
However, Imam Muhammad says, "It is recommended to lengthen the first
rak'ah of all prayers." In addition, it is disliked to lengthen the second rak'ah over
that of the first by reading more than two verses, an issue they agreed upon. With
respect to voluntary prayer, the rules are not as stringent.'


CW arty £٩٥ Ni nS y


It is sunna to utter the takbir of ruku(bowing)and to glorify God three times
therein. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would make takbir
every time he declined(for ruku).' And with respect to the glorifications, the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If one performs ruku, he
should say three times, "Glory be to my Lord the great" and this is the minimum].' In
addition, if the imam lifts his head from the bowing posture before the follower
has completed this three tasbih, then he is to join the imam, and this is the correct
view.


٠ prey heed)dy ny ٠ ٤b day y BL Cnaig lg a Vad Myc darbal ee iy qty an Sy del,





" Bukhari ٧٠٧.

* Maraky al-Falah ١٤٩.
٣ Muslim ٣٩٢.

" Abu Dawud ٨٨٥.

