١٥٠ BOOK I: PRAYER


hee DF sSly cost Ally qteally Headly Lad gly pelea Joly pralil a PLY gs


It is waytb to recite Quran aloud in the dawn prayer as well as in the first two
rak'ahs of the maghrib and 'isha prayer even if they are missed prayers and are
being made up. One is also required to recite loudly for the Friday prayer, the Eid
prayer, the tarawih prayers and the witr prayer in Ramadan. Note: audible
recitation is that which is heard by others.


Sb icra tt LS at(٢ pe)٢ edly sett Jy relia Islan by nantly gb GLY


It is wajid to recite Quran silently to the extent that the one can hear himself in all
the rak'ahs of the dhuhr and 'asr prayer, in the third rak'ah of the maghrib prayer,
in the third and fourth rak'ah of the 'isha prayer and in all the rak'ahs of
voluntary prayer offered in the daytime. The one performing an obligatory prayer
alone(such as the fajr or maghrib)has an option between reciting Quran aloud or


silently." Likewise, the one offering voluntary prayer at night also has an option,
whether he wishes to recite audibly or silently.


er ٢ ew PW GULF Le QU Ga


If one omits the recitation of a surah in the first two rak'ahs of the 'isha prayer,
then he is to repeat it aloud in the last two rak'ahs with the Fatiha aloud as well;
and this is the most correct view. In the event of this situation occurring, one is to


advance the Fatiha, then the surah, though some held that one should advance
the surah first."


If the Fatiha is not recited in the first two rak'ahs, one is not to repeat it in the last


two rak'ahs, i.e. one is not to recite the Fatiha twice in the third rak'ah and twice
in the fourth.


" The reason he has an option is because he is an imam for himself and because there is no one
behind him who can listen to his recitation. He may therefore recite audibly or silently. Al-
Karkhi(God bless him)held that he is not to raise his voice to the extent that the imam does,
because there is no one behind him who is listening. However, some jurists maintain that to
make his prayer similar to the congregation is of greater benefit.(Al-Hidayah ١٢٦).

* Maraky al-Falah ١٤٤.

