The Chapter Of Hajj And Umrah
ah sn
The Meaning Of Hajj
«ab(dane iui CS ISNTL DG comme | pai oles J]Lendl fo Sa(ql)jl,
MC pak oye}Be pat Sel oto ٢ pat O١٥ ٥٥L٥))be le > jar y
Linguistically hajj means to aim for something great. For example; one may say
"hajjajtu such and such," if it was one's intention to honour him. According to its legal


meaning; hajj is to visit a specified place, to perform specific actions in specific
times.


be fey Say Gil pl D١ atl oe g٤b ٠ padell OLS! UI


As for the specified place, it is the sacred House of Allah in Makkah and the
mountain of Arafah.


Up Gi My bs My Leal oy ely Cod il ball: gb Le pall ULES Ul,


As for the specific actions, it is the tawaf of the House of Allah, the moving
between the Safa and Marwah(sa fy)and the standing at Arafah.


Ue Scie MN ah atl ped pe patel ep MU,
As for the specific times, it is the months of hajj that are mentioned in the coming


paragraphs.
andl fil by poy Qtl pK


The Ruling Of Hajj And The Conditions That Render It Obligatory
٤ tl, Saal y ٦ eI: Pat by tad crcl yp fe ritelyi py pill bi ٣ tly


Hajj is obligatory once in a lifetime upon one who satisfies six conditions, they are:


١- Islam. One must be a Muslim as hajj is an act of worship. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))sent a Messenger to Yemen, and said[Invite
them to testify that there is no god but Allah. If they obey you, then inform them
that they must do such and such]and he mentioned haijj.


٢- Maturity. The child is not obliged to perform hajj due to the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[The pen has been lifted
from three]and he mentioned the child and insane among them.


٣- Sanity. A person who is not of sound mind is not required to observe hajj in
accordance with the above hadith.


٤٠٢ Book VI: Hajy)AND UMRAH


+ Freedom, i.e. one must not be a slave. The Prophet((God bless him and give
peace))said[A slave who has performed hajj ten times and is then set free is
under an obligation to perform the hajj of Islam; a juvenile who performs the hajj
ten times and then attains maturity is under an obligation to perform the hajj of
Islam].


Balj «dled Waly as SAK sh eg Ate ley Lbs LL at be ati, ag Ob U٣. Glad Lo dually
A٩٩٦ > J]pty lane oVsly de ٥٥ ce dhe daw Jo


٥- One must possess the financial means - which is to have sufficient funds to
spend upon oneself to travel to and from the journey and also to buy or rent
either for accommodation or transport. These funds must be extra to the funds
one has left for his family members(during his absence)from his wife, young
children and servant until he returns. This means that one must possess the
ability to maintain himself and family until his return.


Pl lo Dbl pe jolt b i lay Call plally


٦- One must have knowledge that hajj is obligatory. This condition is exclusively
for those who become Muslim in the land of the enemy(dar al-harb). This means
that if one embraces Islam on enemy land, he must have knowledge that hajj is
obligatory before it is imposed on him.


ct! al sil Ws
The Proof Of Hajj Being Obligato
GUVs Eady ٦ ES: Atl al pil fe fly


The evidence that hajj is obligatory is based on the verses of Quran, the sunna of
the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)and the consensus of the
scholar's(Jjma).


Aap al Unreal ope Sel eam tI fe ahhy)): SWS Jy OES LT


As for the Quran, Allah says[Pilgrimage to the house is a duty men owe to Allah
those who can afford the journey].'
Si Ugeg pred atl Sle ٢٥ ILI L)): py Hal de SF er SoG EL,(CLA aa gh Lo yye ٠b | rad at dy be ٢): py SLA ele
As for the sunna, there are many narrations, such as the saying of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace), "Verily, Allah has declared hajj obligatory
upon you, therefore perform hajj." The Prophet(God bless him and grant him


" Al-Baihaqi . Al-Hakim al-Mustadrak. This has been graded as sound by the two shaykhs.
? Quran ٣:٩٧.


peace)also said, "One who possesses wealth and has all the means by which he
could reach the sacred House of Allah and yet does not perform hajj, he may
either die as a Christian or Jew."


tele on ala fo ٤ ٩ GAO)Jo eel Mal eel


And verily, all the scholars of Ahi asSunna have stated that hajj is obligatory upon
those who are able.


gtlelsi bs ~
The Conditions(Required)For Performing Hajj
iby SEW atl bin,
There are three conditions a person must meet in order to perform hajj;
OH phe Fae LV lo pall co Sal SU ٥٥ OAL by ob ly «decal JM


١- Sound health; this means that one's body must be free from illnesses that
would prevent him from performing the actions required in the journey of hajj. If
one's body or ailment prevents him in undertaking the required actions in hajj,
then he is not obligated to perform it.


OT egehe oS! Glall Gatlly ay Ml be Vy ٠ Sade Sp gain ogling Gay dae de oflal vo tts
oot Cle TE oy


Hajj is not obligatory on the crippled, chronically ill or those who have disabilities.
Likewise, it is not obligatory on one who has lost his legs or is ill and neither upon
an old enfeebled person. However, they are required to instruct others to perform
hajj on their behalf.


wy gall Lo Sy dad SUA AE WS Foals pe bl cols GUL,


٢- It is conditional that the route to Makkah be safe; and the factor considered
here is that one has a predominant belief that it is safe. The fatwa issued on this
matter is in accordance with this view.


BAN fe pall dai ٦١٥ gmc gh TM CAS LE tS Ign my ٩٣ gry AM ee OS ob: LU
» SUEYU YE pedi ae ٢ y J ١٣٤


٣- The female must be accompanied by her husband or a relative of the
prohibited category(mahram), such as her son whether she is young or old. If the
mahram(unmarriageable person)will not accompany her unless she covers his
expenses, then she must fund his expenses. The rule of mahram is someone
whom she is forever forbidden to marry because of lineage or affinity that is the
relation by marriage or suckling. Ibn Abbas said; I heard the Messenger of Allah((God bless him and give him peace))saying[A man should not be alone with a


٤٠٤ Book VI: HAJ)AND UMRAH





woman unless she has a mahram with her and a woman should travel with a
mahram]. A man said, 'Messenger of Allah, my wife has set out for hajj and I have
been selected to go on a certain expedition(jihad).' The Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))said(Go and make hajj with your wife]." Additionally, the
minor and the insane person are not considered in the category of mahram as
Protection is not attained through them.


a! anv by ro
Conditions That Validate Hajj
Sha by ٢ OW qt onal b prs

Hajj is considered valid when three conditions are fulfilled;

OLUL SS y La ٣ Stl § pet Ge Tyke yay el >i
|: That one acquire the state of Ikram, which is a combination between the
intention in the heart(to perform the rites of hajj or umrah)with the uttering of
the ¢albiyah upon the tongue. This intention and recitation is made when one


Wears the ihram clothes. It is called /hram because the one in this state is
forbidden certain things as shall be covered further on.


We boyhood Ib awl,


٢ That the hajj take place in the specified time for hajj. This time is prescribed by
the Sacred law.


wi yup ٩٥ ٩M Ld GIL pes
٤ And not to indulge in sexual intercourse prior to the standing at Arafah.
a
The Time Of Hajj
DN S٨ sgt oe SoM PL hey Btadll ٥٣ ety Sly ppt gaye ¢ tll ood Cy oad!


The time of hajj is specified by the Sacred Law. It is the month of Shawwal, the
nonth of Dhul Qa'dah and the first ten days of Dhul Hijjah.


Co ALB ٥ «ob S٥٣ le Pally Beall ae go ges aby(Corl glee qth ol): Lai ail Ji
al ge dil Ol ype)Ulnall
Alah said[For hajj the months are well known].' Allah has also said[They ask


yu concerning the new moons. Say: They are but signs to mark fixed periods of
tne in the affairs of men for pilgrimage].* And indeed the Prophet((God bless





fukhari and Muslim.
s Baqarah ٢:١٩٧.
l-Baqarah ١٨٩.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٠٥


him and grant him peace))clarified this in what has been mentioned earlier and
in what the Companions narrated from him((God bless him and grant him


peace)).
Ny phat ٦ gh gS end fe pall lel pe ci gilda J ٥ LL pl > M pla! ay ZU So Sy
-hdelel-y


It is prohibitively disliked for a person to adopt ihram for hajj before this time;
and it makes no difference whether a person is sure of himself in abstaining from
the forbidden acts of ihram or whether he is unsure of himself, it is disliked
before the specified period. Note: even if one enters the state of ihram, he cannot
perform any actions of hajj until the period of hajj arrives. In relation to umrah, it
is permitted during the entire year by agreement of the scholars with no dislike,
whether in the months of hajj or other months, except for five days that are
disliked: the day of Arafah, the day of Sacrifice, and the days of Tashriq because
during these times the pilgrims are busy performing hajj.


gtlls,l
The Pillars Of Hajj


OLS)als
There are two pillars of hajj
٩٢ ٨ Ebb SI dl ٥٨ oe ele yy Ss ce Bp Gi Mody ٩ tad Jy we Gl: Las!
SON SUL patos Ny ٦ et rye bed Ca Ob ead ace Sball


l- The first pillar of hajj is the standing at Arafah, even for a moment. The time of
standing at Arafah begins when the sun declines from the meridian on the ٩ of
Dhul Hijjah until the next dawn, which is the ١٠° of Dhul Hijjah. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)commanded the caller to call "Hajj is
'Arafah,"(that is, the chief of all the pillars of hajj). The greatest act in this case, is
for one to stand at Arafah before the sun has set and remain standing there until
it sets. As for the one who reaches Arafah after sunset, he may leave for
Muzdalifah even after a moment of stay.

SM S> J JS pln ta SI bl tl oka ٥]ying Ol ae EAS y> BL GI yb: Lgl
٢. The second is to perform Tawaf alZtyarah(also known as Tawaf alt Ifadah)around the ka'bah seven times. And performing the majority of these seven
circuits satisfies the completion of the pillar. For example, if a person performs
four circuits, then he is regarded as having completed the pillar in a technical
sense, because indeed the law has set that having completed the majority satisfies
the whole. This tawaf is performed after the standing at Arafah. If this action is
missed on the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah, it must be performed by the ١٢" of Dhul
Hijjah.


٤٠٦ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The Wajib Requirements Of Hajj


i٣١٣ a gl olely ae,
There are eight necessities of hajj;
Naa pig Ob]pul p yy pred Bee dey oye ch ٩٩ ¢ Mad yh dado ps G٥ SN


١- The first necessary element is the standing at Muzdalifah even if it is only for a
moment. Its time is after the true dawn on the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah until the sky is
very bright. Note: at Muzdalifah, a person is to unite the sunset prayer and the
nightfall prayer at the time of the nightfall prayer('isha).


bit JS Gay ML eect y eal grant! stn y ON yo ae by ly Lana Ge at: GUI,


٢- The second is to go between the Safa and Marwah seven times(known as sa').
One is to begin at Safa and end with the Marwah. This means that one is to
perform seven circuits beginning the first at Safa and conclude the last circuit at
Marwah.


gly polell doit go: HU,


٣- The stoning of the sites(Jamrahs)during the days of Nahr and Tashriq. The
first site is known as Jamrah al-Kubrah, which is closest to al-Khayf mosque. The
second site is known as Jamrah al-Wusta. The third site is known as Jamrah al-


Aqabah.
- Ks HN gba Mie Of: by ٢K fal I pall GIyb : aI


+ The fourth is Tawaf asSadr(also known as Tawaf al-Wada' or farewell)which is
wajib upon other than those who reside in Makkah. This is observed when one
intends to return to his family. Some scholars held that it is sunna, not wajib.


١ dw ft fedy e praecdl gi GILT: natty


٥- It is wajib to shave or cut the hair after concluding the stoning of Jamrah al-
Aqabah on the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah, and it should take place within the boundaries
of the Haram of Makkah. The Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said
"May Allah have mercy on those who shave their heads," and he repeated this
another two times, after which the people said: "And(what about)those who cut
their hair short, Messenger of Allah?" The Prophet(God bless him and give him
peace)replied, "And those who cut their hair short." In addition, some scholars


have deemed this act as sunna.


» JIU Glas oy el > Dl pled: oI


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٠٧


٦- It is wajib to adopt the ihram from one of the migqat sites. The miqat are
designated sites where one must wear the ihram from as mentioned earlier, and
these areas are discussed further on.


Ae gly ol GAS: ltt


٧- It is wajib to uncover the head and face for a male, while the female covers her
head but uncovers the face. It is reported in the Muwatta' that Yahya related to
me from Malik from Nafi' that Abdullah Ibn Umar used to say that women in
ihram should neither wear a(face)veil nor gloves.


Uae al VE: oll


٨- The eighth necessity is not to wear stitched clothes, for the garments of hajj
must be seamless containing no sewing in them.


ee
The Sunan Of Hajj
: BS ope qos


There are many sunan during hajj time,
' el > wae ILE YI Vie
The major bath(ghusl)is sunna when the pilgrim intends to enter ihram even if it


is a menstruating woman or a woman in a state of postnatal bleeding.
٦ der ology IG! Gack OF ley


To wear two new cloths known as izar(waist wrapper)and ridah(cloak), is sunna
and thereafter to perform two rak'ahs of supererogatory prayer.


ADS oo ٢S oly
To pronounce the talbiyah many times with an audible voice. It is recommended
while standing, sitting, riding, walking and even in the state of major impurity.
The talbiyah is:[At Your service, O Allah, at Your service. At Your service, none


can be associated with You, at Your service. All Praise and blessing belongs to
You as does the kingdom. None can be associated with You].


-¢gtall il yb gery


The Tawaf al-Qudum(arrival)is from the sunan." Hence, from what we have learnt,
there are three types of tawaf. The first is obligatory and this is Zawaf al-Ifadah(or
az-Ziyarah). The second is wajib and is the Tawaf asSadr(or al-Wada')which is the
farewell tawaf. The third is sunna, which is the Tawaf al-Qudum(arrival).


" Muwattah, In The Chapter Of Hajj, ١٥.
? This tawaf is also called tawaf at-Tahiyah(greeting).


٤٠٨ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The following are also deemed sunna;


a)after adopting ihram, it is sunna to send blessings upon the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace)), to make supplications for Paradise and protection
from the Hellfire.


b)to say 'Allahu akbar and 'There is no deity but Allah' when the pilgrim arrives at
the place opposite to the ka'bah.


c)to perform voluntary tawaf as often as possible.


d)to leave Makkah for Mina after sunrise on the ٨" of Dhul-Hijjah and to spend
the night there.


e)to spend the nights in Mina in the days of Mina.
f)to offer sacrifice by the pilgrim who observes the Ifrad form of hajj.
h)to drink the water of Zamzam and to pour it over one's head and body.


i)taking hold of the Multazam, the wall of the ka'bah that stands between the
door and the black stone by placing one's chest and face on it. And taking hold of
the drapes of the ka'bah and supplicating to God.


TAS Gedl cil ys
The Sites Of Ikram For Hajj(Mawagit)Bye gh oe FV Lag gl VIS to ead ye JS oe De Stl ¢ LI o> ٥,


Allah specified the sites that a person is required to adopt ihram from. One is not
to pass through these sites except in a state of ihram for hajj or Umrah. The sites
are as follows;


Lrdoh per cry pary lil PV dint: ay


i)AlJuhfah near Rabigh - This is the site for the residents of Syria and
Egypt(and the Maghrib e.g. North-West Africa)and the people
passing through those countries. This site is approximately ٢٠٤km away
from Makkah.


ole pez cg tall Jo GEIL ٩٥,


ii)Dhul Hulayfa - This is the site for the residents of Madina and the
people passing through Madina. This site is approximately ٤٥٠km away
from Makkah.

ee rsd PY G٦ by


tit)Dhat Irq - This is the miqat(site)for the residents of Iraq, Iran,
Khurasan etc. And those passing through these places. This site is
approximately ٩٤km away from Makkah.


BooK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


«erry pes dy dos JAY GU oy


Qarn al-Nazil - This is the site for the residents of Najd and an
passing through the country. This site is approximately ٩٤km away
Viakkah.


٤ a٢ A)cll JAY poly


Yalamlam - is the site for the residents of Yemen(and countries
ndia, Pakistan, and Malaysia etc.)and anyone passing thrc
hese countries. This site is approximately ٥٤km away from Makkah.





٢ ONS O}aad WW fe SLEW ode tol frar OF IF ٤ ٦ tof mod ٥ye
; el >i wil, sas £٩٩

d for those intending hajj to adopt ihram before reaching or

d to do this is best, provided one is sure in himself that he wil

of the forbidden acts of ihram.

٥٩٦ Y pS ٦ ٠٠,٥)OSs gl clined eb Le SU odie te edd ab als


LEV ae gl tl ted I


٤١٠ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


If one is a resident in the country of hajj, but lives closer to Makkah than the sites
of ihram, then his migat(site of ihram)is any place he chooses on the way to
Makkah, though it is not permitted for him to enter the vicinity of akHaram with
the intention of hajj or umrah, unless he first observes ihram.


atl tas
How To Perform Hajj
DILL dey ot bad at of OLY! ot ١٥
If a person wishes to perform hajj, then upon him is the following;
po abl fatty, feces sila gy aby co pats sho pat Gey a le patsy oo libl bi oF -١
MIMO gS OF peasy de iy Visas oe adh boyy pa ais Lina' fe ath ١٥! ab
٦ eka ye aul cpa elo dl


١. It is recommended to cut the nails, trim the moustache and shave or cut the
hair. Thereupon one is to perform wudu or the major bath, though the major
bath is best on account that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed this when preparing for hajj. It is then sunna to wear new garments(one of which is the izar), a wrapping around the bottom half of the body and the
other part called the ridah, wrapping it around the top half of the body. And it is
better if both are white and new. A person is also to apply perfume after bathing.
Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf held that it does not matter if the traces of perfume
remain on the body after assuming ihram. However, in the opinion of Imam
Muhammad and Zufar, it is disliked to apply perfume in which traces remain
after ihram has been adopted. This is also the view of Malik and Shafi'i. A'ishah(God be pleased with her)said, "I used to scent Allah's Messenger when he
wanted to assume ihram and also on finishing ihram before the tawaf(al-
Ifadah)."" This clearly indicates that the traces of perfume remained on the body.
What is prohibited with respect to perfume is the use of it after ihram.


«pe aay No peed ctl te dS)Ql: Spd ods ea y rary
One is then to pray two rak'ahs of prayer after which he is to say, "O Allah, I wish
to perform hajj, so case the journey upon me and accept(this hajj)from me." The reason for
this supplication is because hajj contains many actions that involve hardship.
Thus, one requests Allah to lighten the difficulty of the journey. With respect to


the prayer, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))offered two rak'ahs
of prayer at Dhul Hulayfa on wearing the ihram clothes.'


WW th Ve aly WW ely ed)OL Ub YL tL Sp Dd oh od


' Bukhari ١٥٣٩.
* Bukhari ١٥٥٤.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١١


After the prayer, one is to utter the talbiyah(At Your service, O Allah, at Your service.
At Your service, none can be associated with You, at Your service. All Praise and blessing
belongs to You as does the kingdom. None can be associated with You)). It is recommended
to recite the talbiyah audibly while standing, sitting and walking. It is particularly
recommended during every ascent and descent, when mounting and
dismounting.


pl ad de by Shp


Accordingly, when one pronounces the talbiyah intending in his heart, then
indeed he has acquired ihram. Al-Hidayah states one does not legally enter the
state of ihram with the intention alone unless he says the talbiyah. Though Imam
Shafi'i disagreed on this point. The reason according to the Hanafi school is that
the intention is like a pact for performance; therefore, it is necessary to follow it
up with dhikr(remembrance of God).


٦ JIDN ٦S gently Sd ST abe @ > AUS Lab sey -٢
٢. When one has adopted ihram, it is forbidden to engage in; a)obscenity which is
sexual intercourse or amorous talk or the meaning of intercourse, b)sin and
disobedience to God, c)to argue or quarrel with others. God states in the Quran[For hajj are the months well known. If anyone undertakes that duty therein, let


there be no obscenity, nor wickedness, nor wrangling in the hajj, and whatever
good you do,(be sure)Allah knows it]."


aor y shady day oly ale VY HELV Wane fy


Forbidden also is; d)to kill, hunt, to point towards prey or indicate where it is.
Allah said(Forbidden is the pursuit of land-game as long as you are in the sacred
precincts or in pilgrim garb];" and e)to cover the head or face for a male and the
woman must not cover her face, whilst it is obligatory to cover her head. Note:
The female may cover her face with a cloth or rag provided it does not touch her
face, whether it is for a need or not, or for fear of temptation or the like.


crt gb LAS gh Sy pe ol peed oye Ue ob gh hay sho UBT Le gle at ats gl
Le gh lie


It is forbidden, f)to cut the hair or nails, g)to place perfume on the body, h)to
wear stitched clothing, such as shirts, trousers, shoes, or to wear moccasins(boots)and things of the like.


Wig food sh SLIME pl LI toy SLE I ٥ ٩t A


" Bagarah ١٩٧.
? Al-Maida ٩٦.


٤١٢ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


However, it is permissible to perform the major bath with water only because this
would be required in the event of sexual impurity[janaba]. And verily Umar Ibn
al-Khattab performed ghus! whilst in ihram." It is permitted to enter into a wash
room, or take shade under the drapes of the ka'bah or under a canopy, although
Imam Malik said that seeking shade under a tent or what resembles it, is disliked,
because it amounts to covering the head." One may also take shade underneath a
hand held carriage or something of the like.


The marriage contract of a person in ihram is considered valid, though the
consummation of the marriage is forbidden. Imam Shafi'i and other imams held
that even a marriage contract while in the state of ihram is unlawful and the
marriage is invalid.


| Sia aNednnd ٢ yo IN rb lacy ٦ ON pe pee EAS J y> GS ghad c pl DY deh Laat Ss foro ١٣٥ -٣
EAS y ects y(Lane ging gill il gh ym day)pUlazal ٠! ales y « ty Lal, Whee


٣. Tawaf al-Qudum(Arrival)upon arriving in Makkah

When one enters Makkah, he is to begin with Masjid al-Haram and is to make
tawaf around the ka'bah seven times commencing from the black stone. Though
prior to the tawaf, one is to face the black stone, greet it, pronounce the takbir
and tahlil(saying; There is no god except but Allah)during which his hands are raised.
If one is able, he should touch the black stone with his two hands and kiss it(without hurting others and if he cannot, then he is may greet it from a distance).
He is then to make tawaf and when he reaches the black stone again, it is counted
as one and so forth. One is to kiss the black stone every time he passes it in his
tawaf. Note: the floor is marked with a black line to indicate one's alignment with the black
stone to signify when one has completed a circuit. This is known as Tawaf al-Qudum, and
it is sunna. After this, one is to go to the station of Ibrahim and pray two rak'ahs
next to it or where it is possible in the mosque, and this is wajib to perform,
whereas Imam Shafi'i held it as sunna. Additionally, Imam Malik said that this
tawaf is an obligation due to the saying of the Prophet[Whoever comes to the
House is to greet it with a tawaf]. On completion of the two rak'ahs, one is to
return to the black stone and greet if able or at least face it and utter; 'God is
great. There is no god except Allah. Glory be to Allah.'[Allahu akbar, La ilaha
illAllah, Subhan Allah).


The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The hands are not to be
raised except on seven occasions.)and among these, he mentioned the greeting
of the black stone. In addition, the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))kissed the black stone upon which he said to Umar[Verily you are a strong built
man, so do not torment people for the black stone].' Thus, no Muslim should be
afflicted with harm in getting to the black stone.


" Muwattah In The Chapter Of Hajj ٦.


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١٣


It is sunna for a man who wishes to perform the sa"iy between the Safa and Marwah afta
tawaf al-Qudum, that he observe idtiba' prior to the tawaf; and ramal in the first thre
circuits, and then walk normally in the remainder. Ramal - In the first three circuits of
tawaf, it is sunna for the men to walk hastily, lifting their legs forcefully, keeping
the chest out, and moving the shoulders simultaneously like a challenger in an
arena. This is accompanied by idfiba' which is the passing of the top sheet under
the right armpit and letting it hang from the left shoulder. This is observed before
the tawaf. One should then walk normally in the four remaining circuits. It is
recommended that in every circuit one should kiss the black stone(if able)and
touch the Yemeni corner as Imam Muhammad held it as Sunna. Ibn Umar
reported that when Allah's Messenger(God bless him and give him peace}performed tawaf in hajj and umrah he walked swiftly in the first three circuits(Ramal)around the house and then walked in the other four circuits and then
observed two rak'ahs of prayer, and then ran between Safa and Marwah.!


BAU LES Leal b> JS ٣ Baie Sly om Lge sed ay AI Lena WI


One is then to proceed towards the Safa and Marwah and move between them
seven times beginning at Safa and ending at Marwah. Therefore, when one arrives
at Safa, he is to climb upon it to such an extent that he will see the ka'bah during
which he is saluting the House, pronouncing the takbir and tahlil, and blessings
upon the Prophet. He is then to raise his hands and make supplications for his
needs. This is based on the report that the Prophet climbed onto the Safa and on
seeing the House turned towards the qibla and made supplications to God).
Following this, one is to descend towards Marwah walking in his normal gait.
When he reaches the centre of the valley, he is to adopt a running gait by way of
sa'ty between the two green pillars. After that, he is to adopt his calm gait until he
reaches Marwah. He is to climb it and perform the same acts that he performed at
Safa. All this constitutes one of the seven circuits to be done between the Safa and
Marwah. Hence, from Safa to Marwah is considered as one circuit and the return
to Safa is considered as the second and so forth until one has completed seven
such circuits.* The first circuit is to begin at Safa due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Begin with what God, the Exalted has


begun].
AD gel in oe BB GN g٣ oe ctl ys py Seal ٦ yz Sf AUS ad Le ey gl od =
Mee ed tt el bl te,


" Muslim ٢٨٩٤.

? Al-Zayla'i vol ٣/٥٣. Al-Hidayah ٣٦٨, Imran Ahsan Khan.
٣ Al Hidayah-Hajj(Al-Ikhtiyar ٢١٠].

* Muslim, Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah, and Malik.


٤١٤ BOoK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


٤. Staying at Mina(٨th of Dhul Hijjah).


After having completed these actions, one is to remain in Makkah until the ٨° of
Dhul-Hijjah known as the day of deliberation. When this day arrives, one is to
depart for Mina after sunrise where he is to spend the night. This is based on the
report that the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)offered the fajr
prayer on the day of deliberation at Makkah, and when the sun had risen he
departed for Mina. In Mina, one will observe the noon prayer, afternoon prayer,
sunset prayer, nightfall prayer and dawn prayer on the next day(٩")for this is
what Jibril performed with Ibrahim and the Prophet. After the dawn prayer, one
departs for Arafah.


CY lat aad dm NN oom pe by Babb go SL ٨b SN ٥٣ ye Get pp CAI ١-٥
cae AL Lan y


٥. Standing at Arafah(* of Dhul-Hijjah)After praying the dawn prayer on the ٩" of Dhul-Hijjah in Mina, one then departs
for Arafah. At Arafah, one is to stand near the mountain of Mercy to listen to the
sermon of the imam and learn the rituals of hajj from him. The time limit for the
standing at Arafah is from midday on the day of Arafah(٩")until the dawn of the
١٠". If one misses this time limit, the hajj is invalid.


The best practice in undertaking this ritual is to stand at Arafah prior to sunset
and remain there until it sets. Imam Malik holds that if a person leaves prior to


sunset and does not return, then his hajj is invalid and he must return the
following year.


Accordingly, when the sun passes over the meridian on the ٩" of Dhul-Hijjah, two
sermons are conducted by the imam. And provided the imam is present, one is to
pray the noon and afternoon prayer combined at midday and one adhan is called
with two iqamas. Note: The entire area of Arafah is considered as a place of
standing except for the valley of Uranah.


During the sermon, the imam instructs the people about the station of Arafah, the
Station at Muzdalifah, the throwing of the stones at the Jimar, the sacrifice, the
shaving of the head and the Tawaf az-Ziyarah. The two sermons are separated as
in the case of the Friday prayer." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Allah Almighty boasts of the people of Arafah on the day of Arafah
saying; Look, My angels at My slaves. They come dishevelled, dusty arriving from
every deep ravine. Bear witness that I have forgiven them. They will return like
the day their mother bore them].


Additionally, Imam Malik held that one is to terminate the uttering of the
talbivah as soon as he adopts the post at Arafah because responding with speech
occurs prior to carrying out the pillars. The Hanafis on the other hand rely on the





" AlHidayah ٣٧٠


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١٥


report that the Prophet continued to say the talbiyah until he reached Jamrah al-
'Aqabah and the reason according to Al-Hidayah is that the talbiyah is like takbir
in prayer, and therefore, he is to say it until the last rite of his ihram.


Ups SLE Ao Sl ed to os Nabe


After sunset at Arafah, the people depart for Muzdalifah where they will spend
the night. Imam Shafi'i held that one is to stay until midnight at Muzdalifah
whereas Malik held that one must stay for as long as it takes to kneel a camel and
then stand it back up. Note: the maghrib prayer is not to be performed at Arafah,
but it is to be performed at Muzdalifah, combined with the 'isha prayer at the
'isha time, and both prayers are observed with only one adhan and one iqama. If a
person observes the maghrib prayer on the way to Muzdalifah, it is not valid
according to Abu-Hanifa and Muhammad. Additionally, the congregation is not
stipulated for these two combined prayers according to Abu Hanifa because
maghrib has been delayed beyond its time in contrast to the combining at Arafah
where the 'asr was brought forward prior to its time."(Mad by ٢ AG ily oS pala a fry — BN SS oye LM ٦ ys gay — pull SSIS ٣B ٦


٦ - When the Nahr day arrives which is the ١٠° of Dhul-Hijjah, one is to pray the
dawn prayer at the earliest part of the dawn, i.e. while it is very dark, not during
the twilight. After this, one is to stand at Muzdalifah even for a moment. During
this stand, strong supplication should be made. It is recommended to stand after
the dawn prayer with the imam and supplicate. Allah said[Celebrate the Praises
of Allah at the Sacred monument].' The entire area of Muzdalifah is regarded as a
place of standing except the valley of Mahsar as the Prophet(God bless him and
grant him peace)mentioned.


The time of the standing at Muzdalifah is from the arrival of true dawn(١٠" of
Dhul-Hijjah - the Day of Sacrifice)until the day has grown considerably bright. If
one were to neglect this standing without a valid excuse, he would be liable for
sacrifice[ddm]. Imam Shafi'i held it as a pillar on the basis of the words of Allah[Then when you pour down from Arafah, celebrate the praises of God at the
Sacred Monuments].*


Cece pds Blea JS ae pSy cb bar pn dalla ged etl f gle LS ne Sf at oS
ot gt JS)fo JB AS US Jd IS fail GUNG ٦ ٠ pas she pat Gt pS col Of okt


" Al-Hidayah ٣٧٦.
? Al-Bagarah ١٩٨.
٥ Quran ٢-١٩٨.


٤١٦ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


One then departs for Mina before sunrise. At Mina, he is to throw seven pebbles
at Jamrah al-Aqabah and is to pronounce the takbir with each pebble thrown.
After the throwing of the first stone, one ceases to recite the talbiyah. Jabir((God
be pleased with him))reported that the Prophet(God bless him and give him
peace)ceased the talbiyah upon the first throw and said, 'Allahu akbar with every
throw, upon which he slaughtered and shaved his head and then proceeded
towards Makkah to perform tawaf in the house. /f one throws the stone and it falls close
to the Jamrah, it is valid. If the stone drops far away from the jamrah, it is invalid. If one
throws all seven at once, then it is counted as one time." Also, with respect to the pebbles,
it is recommended to gather them from Muzdalifah or from the road of Mina. It
is disliked to gather the stones from those which lay at the jamrahs. Following
this, one may sacrifice if he wishes and then shave or cut his hair, though shaving
is best as mentioned by the Prophet earlier((God bless him and give him peace)).
When one has performed all these actions, everything becomes lawful except
women(sexual intercourse). Imam Malik excludes perfume as well, since it is one
of the things that leads to sexual intercourse. We rely on the words of the Prophet[Everything is lawful for him except women]."


Calan LO ٦ cole Sol ٦ gold gab alacans dNfb e Ua}acl egy nti SAM So pe pt °٧


٧. Tawaf az-Ziyarah(known also as Tawaf al-Ifadah)Thereafter, one is to return to Makkah on the same day to perform tawaf
provided he is able(i.e. on the ١٠° Dhul-Hijjah which is the Nahr day). If one is
unable, then he is to return on the next day(١١")or on the day after that(١٢)for
the time of tawaf is for the three days of sacrifice(Nahr)though the first day is
best. However, one is not to delay the tawaf beyond this. Its appointed time
however is the day of Sacrifice(Nahr)on the basis that Allah mentioned the tawaf
in conjunction with the slaughter. Allah the Exalted said[And eat thereof]and
then said[And perform the tawaf around the House].'


Hence, there are four actions that are performed on the ١٠" and they are: i)the
stoning, ii)slaughtering, iii)shaving the hair and iv)tawaf al-Ifadah. Abu Hanifa
held it necessary to perform the acts in order. If one advances the slaughtering
over the stoning or the shaving over the stoning, then one must sacrifice an
animal on the basis that Ibn Mas'ud said, "Whoever advances a ritual over a
ritual must sacrifice.""* In addition, when three of these four acts have been
performed, one is released from his ihram, though he must first perform the tawaf
before having sexual intercourse.


" Al-Hidayah.

٢ Abu Dawud.

* Quran ٢٢:٢٩.

" Figh al-Islam, Ibrahim al-Silkini ٥١٨.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤١٧(Leash obj ah pb pan ٩ eS y gay ٦ LUV Gl gb ya bing)bith in OSL lb iy jb bp


When one arrives in Makkah, he is to observe tawaf in the House seven times,
and this is known as Tawaf al-Jfadah and it is a pillar. This tawaf is also called
Tawoaf az-Ziyarah, The basis is the report that the Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))after he had his head shaved, departed for Makkah, and performed
the tawaf of the House. Thereafter, he returned to Mina and offered the noon
prayer at Mina.(Note: If a person performed his sa'ty after tawaf al-Qudum[arrival],
he does not have to do ramal in the first three circuits of tawaf az-Ziyarah. But if
one did not do sa'y after tawaf al-Qudum, then he is to observe ramal in this tawaf(i.e. tawaf az-Ziyarah)followed by sa 'ty after it]. The performance of this tawaf after
these three days is disliked. And if one delays it beyond these three days, he
becomes liable for atonement through sacrifice[dém]according to Abu Hanifa."


Ld > oct ISS fm il pall Lin GU cay
After completion of this tawaf, everything becomes lawful even women(i.e. sexual


intercourse with one's partner).
be LS tN oy ٣ I ra Bb Milby pele yp ٥ AS Sd JE IS ٥B -٨


٨. Spending the night in Mina and the stoning
of the Jamrahs on ١١" and ١٢° of Dhul-Hijjah


If a person had travelled to Makkah to offer Tawaf az-Ziyarah on the day of Nahr(١٠ of Dhul Hijjah), then he is to return to Mina on the same day and reside
there. It is disliked to spend the night anywhere else other than Mina during the
days of Mina.


BDL Lig g blame Be NS gp Sly May SHI ot atl oy pte gall py ols ١٣[٣ -٩
| EanNN ٥ yal ٦ Updo od cdma Bal


٩. On the ١١" of Dhul-Hijjah, one is to stone the three sites after midday. He is to
throw seven pebbles at each site. And he is to begin with the site(closest to the
Khayf mosque), throwing seven pebbles, saying "Allahu akbar" with each pebble
thrown. He then throws pebbles at the site after that(which is the middle Jamrah)repeating the same actions as the first and then the last site termed al-Aqabah(repeating the actions of the previous sites). Note: between the stoning of each site
one is to remain there momentarily during which he faces the qibla and recites
the takbir, praises Allah, and sends blessings and salams upon our Holy Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)during which one supplicates to Allah what
he wishes. The hands are raised for this supplication. This is based on the words
of Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)who said, "The hands are not to
be raised except on seven occasions," and among them he mentions the occasions
near the two Jamrahs. Thus, all three Jamrahs are each stoned seven times during which
takbir is uttered upon each throw; and supplication is made at the first two sites.


" Al-Hidayah ٣٨٢.


٤١٨ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


Am gfe Wainy pte Golde gI GG fad le fro fade te GU ¢ JI Uls ١٣٥ -١٠


١٠. On the ١٢" of DhulHijjah, one is to repeat the actions he performed on the
١١". That is, one is to stone all three sites as he did the previous day. And upon
this, hajj is complete.'


If however, a person remains at Mina overnight on the ١٢" of Dhul-Hijjah, then
he must repeat the stoning of all three Jamrahs on the ١٣° of Dhul-Hijjah as was
performed on the ١٢" and ١١". If on the other hand, one quickly leaves for
Makkah before nightfall on the ١٢", then he does not have to repeat the stoning
on the ١٣° of Dhul-Hijjah. Imam Shafi'i held that after the sun sets on the ١٢"(i.e.
the third day of sacrifice)it is not lawful to depart until one has repeated the
stoning on the fourth day(١٣ Dhul-Hijjah).


Abdullah Ibn Umar(God be pleased with him)said, "For whoever the sun sets
during the middle days of Tashriq(١٢")while he is in Mina he must not leave
until he has stoned the pillars(Jamrahs)on the following day))." Imam
Muhammad said: We adhere to this and it is the verdict of Abu Hanifa and our
fuqaha in general.


Leaving for Makkah


On the way to Makkah, it is recommended to stop for a time at al-Abtah between
Mina and Makkah because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))camped there.


Sl gb Leash tii ie ayy)bi pth de reall il gb CL Gi ghd I oye gS -H(eB her ly Gogtall Gt pball gay o gall ٢١ at pb yc Flo oll


١١. Tawaf al-Wada'(known also as T. awaf as.Sadr-Farewell)Thereafter, one is to return to Makkah and perform Tawaf asSadr in the House
making seven circuits. This tawaf is the last of the actions of hajj and it is the
tawaf that is deemed a wajib element of hajj. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[If someone observes hajj to the house, the last of his
business with the House is tawaf]. This tawaf is not wajib for the people of
Makkah because they do not leave it or bid it farewell. There is no ramal in this
tawaf. After completion of the farewell tawaf, one is to go to the Zamzam and
drink some of its water while standing, pouring some of it over the head and face,
Thereafter one may go to al-Multazam, which is between the black stone and the
door, placing the chest and face against it and ask Allah for whatever one wishes.


! : bs bs
The meaning here is that the actions of hajj are complete even though one is still
required to perform the farewell tawaf as the last of his actions.


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤]Summary - Hajj begins on the &* of Dhul-Hijjah


١. Observe thram from the migat(specified sites)٢. Arrive at Makkah and perform Tawaf al-Qudum(sunna)starting from the black stone.
Two rak 'ahs of prayer at the place of Ibrahim and thereafter go between the Safa and
Marwah seven times

٣. On the &* of Dhul-Hijjah one travels to, and resides at Mina observing dhuhr, 'asr,
maghrib, 'isha, and the fajr of the next morning.

٤. On the # of Dhul-Hijjah, one progresses to Arafah where he pauses and listens to the
talk of the imam. If the imam is present, combine dhuhr and 'asr at noon time with one
adhan and two igamas. One is to remain here until sunset

٥. After sunset, proceed to Muzdalifah and combine maghrib and 'isha prayer with one
adhan and one igama. On the ١٠" Dhul-Hijjah in Muzdalifah one is to stand at
Muzdalifah after the dawn.

٦. Thereafter go to Mina and stone only Jamrah al-Aqabah seven times. Then sacrifice and
shave the hair(but no sexual intercourse).

٧. If able on the ١٠%, return to Makkah and observe the Tawaf az-Ziyarah(Ifadah)which
is a pillar, seven circuits. Then return to Mina.


٨. ١١° and ١٢%, stone the three sites on each day.
٩. Return to Makkah and perform Tawaf as-Sadr(wada'farewell)which is wajib.





٤٢٠ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


There Are Three Types Of Hajj One Can Perform. They are as follows:


١- Qiran - This type of hajj consists of forming an intention for both umrah and hajj together,
with only one ihram from the thram sites(mawagit). The clothing of ihram in this type
is not to be taken off until Eid and it is compulsory to sacrifice during this type of
hajj. This is what the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed.
For this type of hajj, one is to perform two sets of sa'iy, once for umrah and the
other for hajj; and one is required to sacrifice out of gratitude.


٢- Tamattu' - Is when umrah and hajj are performed separately. Though both are
performed in the time of hajj. This hajj includes ihram for umrah first. After
completing the umrah, one can remove the clothes of ihram until the day of
deliberation(٨"). Thereafter one observes ihram for hajj during its time, though
both the umrah and hajj are performed in the months of hajj. The person performing
tamattu' must sacrifice out of gratitude.

٣- Ifrad - This type of hajj consists of performing only hajj during the days of hajj. The
clothing of ihram cannot be removed until hajj is complete.


٢,
oe


°
~
°,
oo


UMRAH
The Meani Umrah(Cae gaat SLail ola ot J ail ٢٣٩٤ ٥))et poy e dell fo Aad ٣ pall ples


Linguistically, umrah means obedience. Its legal meaning is — to visit the House
of Allah, AF}Haram to perform specific actions.


٨ yonll oS
The Ruling Of Umrah
«Karly lel olde amy ene ye all G eel fo ٢٥ po hd paslly


Umrah is an established sunna according to the most evident view in the
Madhhab. Though some scholars maintain that the correct view is that it is
necessary[wajid}.
ee c٣٥ & peal i
Is There A Specified Time For Umrah?
rel]Lae gad ٠ Sy EN OLD ae bps ٥ pred AIS Let eae Ci yi pel! Is


Legally, there is no specified time to perform umrah; therefore, it is permitted
anytime throughout the year. Although, it is disliked to perform umrah during
five days;


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٢١


Oban, GUgbd Sey BIS Ge AS lly e pulleys ٦ Bey


The day of Arafah and the day of Nahr(١٠° Dhul-Hijjah)as well as the three days
of Tashriq(١١", ١٢ and ١٣° Dhul-Hijjah)and the reason being is due to the
congestion of the people performing hajj. It is however recommended to perform
umrah during Ramadan.


Saale,
The Pillar Of Umrah
a St gl bi cha Cy Sl bil Bell ٥٥٥٥


The pillar of umrah is to make tawaf around the House seven times or the
majority of these seven.


The Wajib Elements Of Umrah
; pais fl aay cds Aly Lavall ny rm! LAa>l : OlLolys aay
There are two necessary acts of umrah


i)The running between the Safa and Marwah(sa ty)ii)The shaving or cutting of the hair.


ipl by
The Conditions Required For Umrah
ct phy Balls Ol YW te OWS opr g ٦ JO ope be ped Se GUS oad Fol > Wo poe b pty
ee lie op lee ol GUY al


The condition for umrah is to adopt the ihram. If a person is a resident in
Makkah, then he is to adopt ihram from the area of al-Hill(this is an area outside
the Haram). And if one lives in a distant region and intends to perform umrah,
then he is to observe ihram from one of the designated sites for haijj.


٣ al! Las
How To Perform Umrah
٨ yall das]Gl gl : Spi ede etd Gel ٥٣. Le yo fe Wala y oF jay of OLS! ot i١٣١
whe ele ge lagi ٦ gly oo ٦ ce hay Be


If a person wishes to perform umrah, he is to remove his normal clothes and
cleanse himself as was previously mentioned for hajj(such as the major bath).


٤٢٢ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


Thereafter he is to utter: 'O Allah, verily I wish to perform umrah, so make easy the
journey and accept it for me' — after which he is to say the talbiyah. This is the ihram
for Umrah. The talbiyah is:[At Your service, O Allah, at Your service. At Your
service, none can be associated with You, at Your service. All Praise and Blessing
belongs to You as does the kingdom. None can be associated with You].


Sad NI ٠ pad gloat She el ys eee bg My Leal oy gree od od Gb Joo ١٣)pee OS as AU


When one enters Makkah, he is to observe tawaf of the ka'bah, which is seven
circuits. After this, he is to go between the Safa and Marwah seven times(say).
Thereafter, he is to shave his head or cut his hair. When a person does this, his
umrah is complete.


Hajj Otran


ol wl sor
The Meani: Hajj Otran


ATS! AUD)pL Wl oeaSy Bee dey sib Beds tl oy el YI G aod ol ye: OL all


«gl oh Cpe eben ILA ph ably al
Qiran is to combine both hajj and umrah with the one thram. After praying the two
rak'ahs of ihram, one is to say,[O Allah, verily I wish to perform umrah and hajj, so
make easy the journey and accept these actions from me}. Following this, he is to
pronounce the talbiyah as mentioned earlier for umrah and hajj. On completion of
these actions, one has acquired ihram.


ON pS


The Ruling Of Qiran
: Cpluasie eilal oss Lad> ٥s ee)elol crass olm ٤ om elal or jail Ol wt


Qiran is superior than performing hajj alone, and superior than performing
umrah alone. Qiran is also superior than performing tamattu'(which is to
perform both umrah and hajj - though at separate intervals). Imam Shafi'i held
that the Ifrad form of hajj is superior.' Imam Malik held that tamattu' is better
than giran. Imam Shafi'i relies upon the hadith that the Prophet said, "Qiran is a
rukhsah(exemption)," and maintains that there are additional requirements in
the Ifrad form such as talbiyah, journey and shaving and is therefore superior.
The Hanafis rely on the words of the Prophet, "O family of Muhammad,
pronounce the tahlil of performing hajj and umrah together."


" The Ifrad form of hajj is when one performs hajj alone in the time of hajj.
" Al-Hidayah.


BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٢٣


ol al aes
How To Perform Qiran
cl tl as pall Gil phe[ay ٢% OW fo ١٣


When the person performing qiran enters Makkah, he is to begin by making
tawaf for umrah which is seven circuits(around the House), during which there is
ramal in the first three circuits.


CN gh ٠S)furs ot


He is then to pray two rak'ahs after the tawaf, because each tawaf is followed with
two rak'ahs whether the tawaf is obligatory or optional.


«٨ esl Sed ٥ Way bith em lates eed By My Lica UI CF ٠


Upon this, one is to proceed to Safa and Marwah and move between them seven
times[say]. And with this, the actions of umrah are complete. Note: one is not to
shave his head in between the umrah and the hajj because this is a violation of the
ihram of hajj. He is to shave on the Day of Sacrifice just as the person in the Ifrad
form does.


Wa Sd Some Il bt Sed G pan de Qe ٦ sad Gl gb ay i glad ol SI I I aU Ck ٦


He then commences the acts of hajj by going back to al-Haram a second time and
performs Tawaf al-Qudum for hajj around the ka'bah. Then, he is to continue the
actions of hajj as mentioned earlier.


presi fe
The Sacrifice Of Gratitude


Sacrifices are to be made on the Days of Sacrifice(١٠-١٢"" Dhul-Hijjah)and are to
take place in the area of Haram.


Nye ba SU SY sl call oo BLE ey Of ade Gey pull py Saas ٢ OW ٤)BY
- ace lb Jolin ys partly abl ela addy Ol fe Slav di! St. GL
After a person stones Jamrah al-Agabah on the ١٠" of Dhul-Hijjah, it is wajib upon
him to slaughter a sheep, or adopt a share between seven people in slaughtering a
cow or camel(the share being ١/٧). This sacrifice is one of thanksgiving to Allah,


the Glorified and Exalted for enabling him to perform hajj and umrah and
enabling him to the obedience of Allah.


٤٢٤ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


ct Pe Fe pa ee BE: LTS te ٦ py Oe Gye GAL shoe ds de JIB
«jhe a pice Ugals hy Kay Sy bl Sled ope Pl all dey tee ye atl ga


If there is no animal available to sacrifice or one does not have the funds to buy
an animal to sacrifice, then it is necessary to fast ten days. Three of these days are
to be fasted before the ١٠" of Dhul-Hijjah and a further seven days after
completing the actions of hajj. These seven days may be fasted in Makkah
intermittently; meaning, they do not have to be seven continuous days of fasting,
they may be separated apart. This rule is due to the words of Allah[For a person
who does not find an animal there is fasting of three days and seven when he
returns. These are ten complete days].


Imam Shafi'i held that people are to fast the seven days after they have returned
to their families and that it is not permitted before it, and he used as his basis the
words of Allah[He should fast three days during hajj and seven days on his
return, making ten days in all]." However, other scholars of Quranic
interpretation maintained that 'return' refers to the completion of hajj. In addition,
it is recommended for one to eat from the sacrificial meat according to Imam Abu
Hanifa.


Tamattu'


The description of this form is that the worshipper begins from the miqat sites
during the time of hajj. He is to adopt the ihram for umrah and then enter
Makkah. He is to perform the tawaf(ith ramal), go between Safa and Marwah
and shave or cut his hair. He is then to release himself from the state of ihram. On
the day of Tarwiyah(deliberation—٨th), he is to wear the ihram of hajj from the
Haram and perform haijj.'


a aN gas
The Meaning of Tamattu'


ISB AN Olas G SUE oy Late yal p ٦ OT Le ٢ yay cb Ally GEV: AUIS cal


athe al si i Ulel al
Linguistically, tamattu' means comfort and luxury. Legally, tamattu' means: To
observe ihram solely for umrah from the designated sites in the times of hajj, and
upon completion of its actions or the majority, one is to observe ihram for hajj. As
previously mentioned this type of hajj is when umrah and hajj are performed
separately, but both are performed during the time of hajj.





Al-Bagarah ١٩٦.
P Al-Hidayah.


Book VI: Haj}AND UMRAH ٤٢s


Cal pS
The Ruling Of Tamattu'
: ON AI O٩٢ yy ¢ atm y ٥ peal olal cps fail y corey abl elol oye fail aces
Tamattu' is deemed superior than performing hajj by itself. It is also superior to
performing umrah alone. However, qiran is deemed superior than tamattu'.


Nl LAS
How To Perform Tamattu'
Sa ab pall aa til QUID)٦h AY FAS)Bee dey Syd OUEM oe ٨ pale tol das,
wai gb J gh abl bat ٩ Ub glad Se fry > gche ٠(Cu Uphitiy

The one observing tamattu' is to begin by adopting ihram from the migat(designated sites). Following this, he is to pray the two rak'ahs of ihram after
which he says[O Allah, verily I intend to perform Umrah, so make easy the journey upon me
and accept this act from me}. Thereafter, he is to pronounce the talbiyah until he
arrives at Makkah where he is to observe the tawaf for umrah and is to cease the


talbiyah when he commences the first circuit. Imam Malik held that one is to
cease the talbiyah when he sees the House because umrah is a visit to the House.


con pay gh and, Ge aoe dl pth dae dy My call oy ee SN yb oaS)fees ٦


Thereafter, he is to pray the two rak'ahs of tawaf and then go between the Safa
and Marwah seven times. He is then to shave or cut his hair. It is necessary that
one shave his head in order to be released from ihram.


. Ll > epg IS fos Ye phe Wa fos os


Upon completion of these actions, all things become lawful even women(sexual
intercourse). Meaning one is thereby released from his ihram. Note; al-Hidayah
states that the cause of being released from one's ihram is the shaving of the head,
as is the case with the final salams with respect to prayer.


Sel saga ee bl ce abl pal(Ga lS Sy Bl eye penny)Sbl ٥٣ op ple» el> lai


tele Ge(ol


Then on the ٨° of DhulHijjah termed the Day of Deliberation, one is to adopt
ihram for hajj from the Haram area(the sacred area of Makkah)and carry out its
actions as previously mentioned. Note: It is called the Day of Deliberation
because after Ibrahim(upon him be peace)had seen the vision to slaughter his
son, he remained patiently to establish the reality of the vision, that the vision was
not from Satan the accursed.


" Al-Hidayah.


٤٢٦ BooK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


poi e
The Sacrifice Of Gratitude
BU gh ٥ Bay GL SAE of al po LE ad ed pulley Callie gt)bf


After a person stones Jamrah al-Agabah on the day of sacrifice(١٠° Dhul Hijjah), it
is wajib upon him to sacrifice a sheep, or take a share in a group of seven in
sacrificing a cow or camel(the share being ١/٧).


COB OSHA GU S٣[Se ary Bl dame pollo yet Jo ell SH plo ug J obs


If one does not have the means to sacrifice, then he must fast three days prior to
the day of sacrifice(١٠° Dhul Hijjah)and seven days upon his return as
mentioned earlier in the ruling of giran.


Bae Vy ٩ ٠ ٨٥٢ Vy LE eb abe Cad pallie yy ele > BH ALY pay ١


If however, one does not fast three days prior to the ١٠" of Dhul Hijjah, then he is
required to sacrifice a sheep, for no fast or charity will suffice unless it be the


sacrifice of a sheep.
Offences
eh Yt fe ats
Violations While In Ikram
٤٤١ @Lsl
Types Of Violations
oe Bl fe bbe ys pla Yl aid eo be: pend Sl nts SLA
The violations are divided into two types;


١. Violating the restrictions of Ihram, such as intercourse while in the state
of ihram.


٢. Violating the sanctity of the Haram(i.e. the Sacred area of Makkah)such
as hunting in this area.
|- Violating the restrictions of ihram is divided into four sections,
i)The first part requires the sacrificing of an animal to atone for the violation, ii)the second requires the giving of sadaqah(charity), iii)the third requires one to


pay less than the above sadaqah, iv)the fourth requires one to pay the value in
cash or other, as shall be explained.


$ plot
When The Sacrifice Of An Animal Is Wayib
wo yon y cary opal gh eeling aud uae gle tlael rl ae Cob bi po MU ٦ pall de Ve
Bohy ple Sache yy uty UBI ad gh aed, ry Ge she eS Ly ed te sh Uae OS gh
Go led abe SI lel oe Lely ٣٥ gh gy slab ٥h


If a mature person in the state of ihram performs any of the following acts, then
he is required to sacrifice an animal to atone for the violation. The violations are;
a)to perfume a member(or limb)of one's body. The limb is like the head, calf,
thigh and what is similar; b)or he dyes his hair with hair dye, c)or rubs oil or
something similar on his body, d)or wears stitched clothes for a complete day, e)or covers his head for a complete day, f)or shaves a fourth of his head, g)or he
cuts the nails of his hands and feet in the same sitting, h)or cuts all the nails of
one hand, i)or neglects a necessary(wajib)element. The reason sacrifice is
necessary in all these cases is because there is clear prevention from the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))on such matters.


When Is Sadagah Required?
he hp ge ce Joni fee gh Uae od she pe oy GI Ob lite all de Sri Z,
laaty Vib ad she mels ary ge fil


One is required to pay sadaqah if he, a)perfumes less than a limb, b)wears
stitched clothes for less than a day, c)covers the face for less than a day, d)covers
the head for less than a day, e)shaves less than a fourth(quarter)of his head, f)or
cuts only one nail. The reason sadaqah is required in these cases and not sacrifice
is due to the deficiency of the offence.


«NAL Gael ope Blam ٥ gh paral Gi gb pe byt Ns he Vases ead ol p yaa Gb JI
Bare bl cael ٧ slar[Ny ptrall gb cp bys IS,


If one performs Tawaf al-Qudum or Tawaf as-Sadr in a state of minor impurity, or
neglects a circuit from Tawaf asSadr or leaves out a pebble from one of the three
sites, then he is liable for sadaqah. And for every circuit of Tawaf asSadr and for
each pebble which is neglected, a sadaqah is to be paid.


ad gh pcp Cle ai Soe toly JS ٣٦ x F A Lally


٤٢٨ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The sadagah that one must give for each offence mentioned is half a measure[sa]of wheat or its value in cash.


Giallo PW As
When Less Than The Above Sadagah Is Required
OLS ly Sues Jad ٣b dato gh Wed LI p pall J ١٥]Grol » PM OSy


If a mature person in the state of ihram kills a louse or locust, then it is necessary
for him to give sadaqah of whatever amount he wishes.


idl oF
When Is One Required To Pay The Value?
SIN ye pF Ge oped Cad AIS Of Jue yd etl angi Ly ne AIL ٦ all ٥ ١٣)ai pad JS)and ol all Le ae)yyy Lela ٦ pty OI oy ٤ Gary ¢ ANG owes cul
Lege add JS plab ٦ ¢ pas TI mss ٢ on le


If a mature person in the state of ihram kills or hunts on the land, then the animal
killed is evaluated by two upright people and if the assessment amounts to an
offering, then one has the option between, i)purchasing an offering and
slaughtering it in the Haram area and then give it as sadaqah to the poor, or ii)one may purchase food(equal to the value of an offering)and distribute this
amount amongst the poor, giving each person half a measure[sa']of wheat or iii)one has the option of fasting one day instead of feeding each poor person(half a
sa'). This means that the animal killed is evaluated in terms of food. And if for
example the animal evaluated amounts to the feeding of ten people, then
normally, they are to be given half a sa' each, though one has the option of fasting
one day for each half sa'


ISAM godt Le p pal y plabl elo oy AF Soe oped CO peal dewalt dot Als d ols


And if the animal killed does not amount to the value of an offering, then one has
the option of buying meals for the poor(according to the value of the kill)or
fasting according to the method described above.


HL PEs» Ms gh Loge sity pie US oho b PL de gh LIS JS lp all dee ty
des peed Le gh Blin.


There is no obligation if a person in the state of ihram kills a crow, scorpion,
mouse, rabid dog, mosquito, ants, flees, ticks, turtles or what cannot be hunted or
gamed. It is lawful for a person in the state of ihram to kill harmful animals,
whether it is in the Haram or outside of the Haram area.


bial
Hadyi(Sacrifice / Offering)Gal gas
The Meaning Of Hadyi(Offering)al ce Al SN Stee bye! Gl
The hadyi is a sheep that is offered to the poor in the Haram.
Sal ¢! sil
The Types Of Offering
GALE PY pe OS OL y «Dee abe tte[ad pal oye OIS Of He oe ral oy SLE al,
The sacrifice of a sheep must be at least one year of age. If the offering is a cow,
the minimum age is two years old. If the offering is a camel, the minimum age is
five years old. The offering is of three kinds: camels, cows and sheep. The basis is


that when the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))deemed a goat to be
the least form of an offering, then it is necessary that the best be cows and camels,


ad ٦٦ ٥F Vey lil asters jel
A Sheep Suffices For What Violation
dB ss gh gl tay pale gle Lee ٣٥ Sl gb Glb Ba]VY}cect JS des st itll» SLI,
GL hie Sy ade ٤ QUI sla ie paw gl gle ol fy
The sheep suffices for all violations except if one performs Tawaf az-Ztyarah(a
pillar of hajj)in the state of sexual impurity[janaba], or indulges in sexual
intercourse after the standing of Arafah prior to the shaving or cutting of the hair


in which case it becomes necessary to sacrifice either a cow or camel in both
situations.


idl by


Conditions Of The Offering(Hadyi)LA Sy ٩ ١٩ oF lee OS OI sad GL VS
It is a necessary requirement for the sacrificial animal to be free from defect,
limping, and others factors resembling these.


٤٣٠ Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


The Time Of Slaughtering The Offering


se aA O٥٩ I ld LA ae ONS Oy BHM al bl ca sh ON gadl Ol O}gal wd iy


The time of slaughtering the offering for the qiran form of hajj or the tamattu'
form is the three days of Nahr(١٠°, ١١" and ١٢" Dhul-Hijjah). As previously
mentioned, the one performing qiran or tamattu' is required to sacrifice, and
these are the days he is to sacrifice his offering. If one is slaughtering for other
than these reasons(such as for a violation or omission); then legally, there is no
specified time for the sacrifice.


Gaal oe OlX


The Place Of Slaughtering The Offering
Saris ¢ glad cde IS IBY Vdc cas part Vy cp dd OLS ge gh gal ed ley
ale Go pcs ٥ bill


The place for slaughtering any offering is the Sacred area al-Haram. And one
must not specify the slaughtering to Mina, unless the offering is a voluntarily one
or the offering suffers an injury during the journey, in which case it may be
slaughtered in its place. If the offering is a voluntary one, then it is sunna to
slaughter it in Mina during the days of Nahr as the Prophet(God bless him and
give him peace)did, otherwise it is in al-Haram. Hence, the place of slaughtering
the offering is Makkah due to the words of Allah[An offering that reaches the
ka'bah]," unless the offering is a voluntary one.


>, .% .°%,
"e "~~ ~


Quran ٥.٩٥.


PAS, all le EL;
Visiting The Prophet(pbuh)DAN ٨ yhe٥ pS
The Ruling Of Visiting Graves
BIL}pl Kacy CAS))ahh S pee y SU Ii y a La ole Wy BLEW c ple my ٥ gl BL٥ -١(Clog ٩٥٣ yy


١- Visiting the graves of the dead from a general point of view is to take lesson or
heed from, and to supplicate for the deceased. It is a sunna practice to visit the
graves due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))who said[I would have prevented you from visiting graves, but you may now visit
them]." Al-Tirmidhi added to the above: for it reminds one about the hereafter.
Ibn Majah also added from Ibn Mas'ud: and it makes one overlook the worldly
pleasures.


sory tele L٥G GAN yb wclorss oll SLED pyr)ale rey dil ol le SU,
ACL canig tale ple Sly Wail paige yy Jal Ke pH: Ul

The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[Visit the graves, for

verily you will remember death]and it has been narrated that the Prophet((God

bless him and grant him peace))passed by the graves of Madina and turned his


face towards them and said[Peace be upon you, O residents of the graves. May
Allah forgive us and you. You have preceded us and we are following].


cep ade SL I lett, ٥ sla BLTV Op «Lt GST eA alte ab jy -٢


٢- Visiting the tomb of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))is more
significant(and emphasized)in the sunna because the lesson realised from his
passing is stronger and the supplications of blessings for him is required. Note;
this means that visiting the graves of the dead is deemed sunna and visiting the
tomb of the Prophet is more significant.


Jone BH SI Se Ss Y))SLE Gp Bad de SE gl odes bt Sle iy
The tomb of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))is located in his
Mosque, the one he mentioned in great importance saying[Do not tighten the


straps except to three masjids; my Masjid, the Masjid al-Haram(Makkah), and
Masjid al-Aqsah(Jerusalem).


١ ;
Muslim.


٤٣٢ Book VI: Haj}AND UMRAH


The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[One prayer in this
masjid of mine is better than a thousand prayers in any other masjid except the
sacred masjid, Masjid al-Haram].


AC Gla ١٨d ٥ yj dy > ٤)PHESLy Bal ale SU sy
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whoever made hajj and
does not visit me, has turned away from me].


The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[If anyone comes to
visit me for no other reason except visiting me, it is a duty for me to be his
intercessor on the day of Rising]." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[If anyone makes hajj and visits my grave after my death, it is like he
visited me while I was alive]."


IBN By OS Nye SLIDE So yde eh oly pil yyy eo yl sb de I I IL, - ٣
Lane Ls]US Sfp Lathe ٢S ١٣١)gy ٠٩S Ty aL ٥ are Lae Wel GUS Of Lt
; ade ony ail ol ple oa jb٥ ve


٣ Correct behaviour.


Indeed if the law has ordered one who visits a grave to adhere to the boundaries
of the Sacred law during his visit, and to be serious, tranquil and fearful, then this
is more required during the visit of the Prophet's tomb, in that one be more
serious, tranquil and in a higher state of fear(from the punishment of Allah)for
without doubt, this requirement is stronger when visiting the tomb of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)).


٠٣٩٥)heb S pe Sade Sad Ta pally bb la ٥٥ ll day abe al ops ol ee y ٤
bel y arrest fe y ale ail fo


+ It is sunna for a person who Allah has bestowed His Blessing upon by assisting
him to perform hajj and umrah, that he travel to the Madina of the Messenger to
visit him[may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, his family and
Companions].


pred y ٦ cell pl from metas Gao gam Lejch Late Citi Ga NN allel od eT je ١afi
AN pe ale ail le V٥ yo cal op aol de faa Val oyy aide ale Sal!





" Darqutani and Tabarani in al-Awsat.
? Darqutani, Tabarani, and al-Baihaqi.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٣٣


When a person is standing in front of the pure and honoured tomb of the
Messenger of Allah, he is to pause for a moment in obedience and fear, adhering
to the boundaries of etiquette, taking hold of the rope of this firm religion and
send salutations upon the Prophet in abundance as the Prophet((God bless him
and give him peace))said[There is not a person that sends salutations upon me,
except that Allah returns my spirit and I return the salam]." The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))also said[No one sends salutations upon me
from my nation, except that Allah sends him ten salams]and for this reason,
salutation is to be made in abundance.


U٣ Sy sil ply Dall ade a٥ BL)SLs el hee a I GL de pe ol AS al at JL
what ٧b etl ye le MN fe peg so phe(٦ Bly Ah de. rat iy Sell eri oly


We ask Allah, the Most High and Great to give us the ability and aid needed to

perform pilgrimage to His House 'al-Haram' and to visit the tomb of His blessed

Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)), for verily it is only with the

permission of Allah that one is able to perform this.

IPT cul Le))SEN WS eller Sil(Ce ball is))Os -! aA shy SW dil dome - ٥ ٥,
» Alda, ale Lets Oly ٦ V ycis aba Oty ce ate OF Jy pl Sls city(CLAY!


Indeed, with the assistance of God and all praise be to Him, the book 'Hidetul
Fattah' is finalised and arranged at the end of the book 'Sabil al-Falah', which is
the explanation of Nur al-Idah. We ask Allah to allow this to be a means of
benefit and accept it and reward us with His mercy and generosity.


O, o% o%
"° "٩ "eo


" Ahmad, Abu Dawud, and al-Baihagi with a sound chain.


٤٣٤ Book VI: HAJ)AND UMRAH
Visiting the Tomb of the Prophet


The following is a translation from Maraky al-Falah, the explanation
of Nur al-Idah, by Hasan Shurunbulali."


Visiting the tomb of the Prophet is from the most superior of acts and the best of
the recommendations, for indeed the Prophet prompted the visit and announced
its recommendation of it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[He who finds time and did not visit me has turned away from me]." The Prophet
also said[If anyone makes hajj and visits my grave after my death, it is as if he
visited me while I was alive].°


It has become evident that many people are unaware about fulfilling the rights of
visiting the Prophet, and unaware of the acts which are sunna and permissible. So
we seek to mention some of the rituals, and how they are performed and the
manner of decorum, in order to maximise the benefit of this book. It is required
of one intending to visit Prophet Muhammad((God bless him and grant him
peace))to increase the salutations upon him in abundance, because he hears that
which one says. When one's eyes alight on the walls of Madina, one is to ask Allah
to grant him benefit and acceptance from the visit.


It is recommended to bath prior to entering Madina or after entering, though
prior to the visit if possible. One is to apply a sweat musk and wear his best
clothes. When one enters, he should say, "Bismillahi wa 'ala millati rasulillah, Rabbi
adkhilni mudkhala sidgin wa akhrijni mukhraja sidgin wajal li min ladunka sultanan
Nasira."[In the name of Allah and on the religion of the Beloved Prophet, O my
Sustainer! Cause me to enter in a manner true and sincere and grant me out of
Your grace, sustaining strength].


One is to continue, "Allahumma salli 'ala sayyidina Muhammadin wa 'ala aali sayyidina
Muhammadin, kama sallayta 'ala sayyidina Ibrahima wa 'ala sayyidina Ibrahima, wa barik
'ala Muhammadin wa 'ala aali Muhammadin, kama barakta 'ala Ibrahima wa 'ala aali
Ibrahima fil 'alamina innaka Hamidum Majid."[O Allah, have mercy on Muhammad
and the family of Muhammad just as You have had mercy on Ibrahim and the
family of Ibrahim. And send blessings on Muhammad and on the family of
Muhammad just as You have sent blessing on Ibrahim and on the family of
Ibrahim, indeed You are the Praiseworthy, the Glorious].


Following this, it is recommended to supplicate; "Allahumma Iftahli abwab rahmatik
warzugni ziyarata Rasulika, sallAllahu 'alayhi wa sallam, ma razagta awliyaaka wa ahla
ta'atika. Wagfir li, warkamni ya Khayra Mas'ul. Allahumma! Inni as'aluka khayra
hadhihil baldati wa khayra ahliha wa khayra ma fiha, wa 'a'udhu min sharvi ahliha wa
sharri ma ftha."[O Allah, open the gates of Your mercy for me and provide me
with a visit to Your Messenger, may the peace and blessings of Allah be upon


' Maraky al-Falah ٤٣٠-٤٣٥.
? Al-Hafidh al-'Iraqi fi alMughni 'an Haml al-Asfar ١/٢٥٩.[Maraky al-Falah ٤٣٠].
* Darqutani in al-Sunan ٢/٢٧٨. Tabarani in al-Awsat.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٣٥


him, as You have given it to Your friends and those who obey You. Forgive me
and have mercy on me, O best of those who are asked! O Allah, I ask You for the
good of this land and the good of its people and the good of what is in it. I seek
refuge with You from its evil, the evil of its people and the evil of what is in it}.


One should be humble, submissive and considerate. It is the land that God chose
as the abode of the hijra of His Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)),
and the place where revelation came down and the source of the rulings of the
Sacred law. One is then to enter the mosque and pray two rak'ahs at the minbar,
standing where the pillar of the minbar is near the right shoulder. And what is
between the Prophet's tomb and the minbar is a garden from the gardens of
Paradise, as the Prophet mentioned((God bless him and grant him peace))."! The
Prophet said[What is between my house and the minbdar is one of the gardens of
the Paradise]. This is referred to as Rawdat alJanna. One is to prostrate out of
gratitude to God by performing two rak'ahs in it other than the two rak'ahs one
performs upon entering the mosque. This is offered out of gratitude to what God
has allowed and assisted one in doing by granting the favour of reaching the
sacred place, after which one may supplicate what he likes.


One then goes to the noble grave and is to stand four arms length away from it(approx two meters), adopting the required etiquette and face its wall — with his
back to the gibla, standing close to the head of the Prophet and his honourable
face, aware that the Prophet hears his words and that he(the Prophet)returns the
salam and says amin to one's supplication. One should say, "Assalamu 'alayka ya
sayyidi ya rasulillah. Assalamu 'alayka ya NabiyyAllah. Assalamu 'alayka ya habib Allah.
Assalamu 'alayka ya nabiyyar-Rahma. Assalamu 'alayka ya shafi"al Umma. Assalamu
'alayka ya sayyid al-Mursalin. Assalamu 'alayka ya khatim an-Nabiyyin. Assalamu 'alayka
ya Muzzamil. Assalamu 'alayka ya Muddathir, Assalamu 'alayka wa 'ala ahl bait-ika at.
tahirina alladhina adh-haba 'an hum ar-rijs wa taharahum tathira. Ash-hadu annaka
rasulillah gad balaghtarRisala wa addaytalamanata, wa nasahtalUmmata. Fa ja
zakAllahu 'anna afdal ma jaza Nabiyyin 'an Ummatihi."[Peace be upon you, O Master
of the Messengers. Peace be upon you, O Prophet of Allah. Peace be upon you, O
beloved of Allah. Peace be upon you, O seal of the Prophets. Peace be upon you,
O Muzzamil(i.e. enwrapped). Peace be upon you, O Muddathir(i.e. enveloped).
Peace be upon you and on your family, who are pure, and whom God has
removed from them impurity and purified them. I bear witness that you are the
Messenger of Allah. You conveyed the message and carried out the trust and you
were faithful to the community. May Allah reward you for us with the best a
Prophet can be rewarded from his community].


The visitor should add,[AZahumma Innaka gulta[Wa law annahum idh dhalamu
anfusahum ja-uuka fastaghfar Allaha wastaghfara lahumur-Rasulu la wajadullaha
tawwaban rahima]. Wa gad ataytuka ya rasulAllahi mustashft"an bika ila Rabbi. Fa as-
aluka ya Rabbi an tujiba li almaghfirata kama awjabtaha liman atahu fi hayatihi.
Allahuma(١)j"athu Awwala(a)Sh-Shafi"ina ya Arham arRahimin.[O Allah, You said{If





" Bukhari, Muslim.


٤٣٦ BOOK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


they had only, when they were unjust to themselves, come unto you and asked
Allah's forgiveness, and the Messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they
would of found Allah indeed Oft-Returning, Most Merciful}." I have come to you,
Messenger of Allah, seeking your intercession with my Lord. I ask You, O Lord,
to grant forgiveness for me as You granted it for the one who came to him when
he was alive. O Allah, make him the first of the intercessors, O Most Merciful of
the Merciful!].


Following this, one should supplicate for his parents and the Muslims, and convey
the greeting from those who have told him to convey their greeting. One says,
"Assalamu 'alayka ya RasulAllahi min(mention the name)."[Peace be upon you, O
Messenger of Allah, from so and so]. Then again, one should send salutations on
the Prophet and supplicates for whatever he likes turning with his back to the
qibla.


One then turns about half a metre to the right until he is near the head of Abu
Bakr as-Siddiq(God be pleased with him)and is to say, "Assalamu 'alayka ya
khalifata Rasulillahi, Assalamu 'alayka ya Sahiba Rasullilahi wa anisahu fil ghari wa
aminahu fil asrari, jazakAllahi 'an ummati Muhammadin khayr."[Peace be upon you, O
Khalifa of the Messenger of Allah. Peace be upon you, O Companion of the
Messenger of Allah and his comrade in the cave and the one entrusted with his
secrets! May Allah reward you from the community of Muhammad, may the
peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, with the best].


Then he turns another half metre to his right until he is standing near the head of
amir al:Mu"minin — Umar ibn al-Khattab(God be pleased with him). One is to say,
"Assalamu 'alayka ya amir al-Mu'minin. Assalamu 'alayka ya nasir al-Muslimin. Assalamu
'alayka ya man a'azzAllahu bihil Islam. JazakAllah 'an ummati Muhammadin sallAllahu
'alayhi wa sallama khayra."[Peace be upon you, Amir al-Mu"minin. Peace be upon
you, Helper of the Muslims. Peace be upon you, O you by whom Allah made
Islam mighty. May Allah repay you for the community of Muhammad, may the
peace and blessings of Allah be upon him, with the best].


After this, one is move back half a metre and say, "Assalamu 'alaykuma ya dajit
rasulillah, wa rafigihi, wa wazirihi, wa mashirihi, wa ma'anina lahu 'alal giyam biddin,
jazakumAllahu ahsanal jaza'.[Peace be upon you all, to the friends in burial of the
Messenger of Allah and his associates, and his advisors and his helpers in
implementing the religion, may Allah reward you with the best reward]. One is
then to stand near the head of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))as he did the first time and say, "Wa law annahum idh dhalamu anfusahum ja-uuka
fastaghfar Allaha wast-aghfara lahumur-Rasulu la wajadullaha tawwaban rahima."?[If
they had only, when they were unjust to themselves, come unto you and asked
Allah's forgiveness, and the Messenger had asked forgiveness for them, they
would of found Allah indeed Oft-Returning, Most Merciful]. It is recommended
that one add, "We have come to you listening to your saying, adhering to your


" An-Nisa ٦٤.
? An-Nisa ٦٤.


Book VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH ٤٣٧


command, seeking your intercession. O God, forgive us, and our fathers and
mothers and our believing brothers who have passed before us." One may
increase as he likes of the supplication, voluntary prayer and repent to Allah
asking for what he wants. It is recommended to come to the Rawda and pray what
one desires and supplicate what he likes and make fasbih in abundance as well as
tahlil(i.e. to say: there is no deity but Allah)and istighfar. Thereafter, one is to
come to the minbar and place his hand on the pommel where the Prophet would
place his hand during the sermon, in order to acquire the blessing.


It is recommended to go out to al-Baqi' and visit the graves. A'ishah said[The
Messenger of God used to go out at the end of the night to al-Baqi and say, "Peace
be upon you, abode of a believing people. What you were promised will come to
you tomorrow as decreed. Allah willing, we will join you. O Allah, forgive the
people of Bagi al-Gharqad]." Among the known graves are Ibrahim, the son of the
Prophet, Uthman ibn Affan, al-Abbas, al-Hasan ibn Ali and others, and he should
finish by visiting the grave of Safiyya, the paternal aunt of the Messenger of God.
It is recommended to go to Uhud early on Thursday and visit its martyrs
beginning with Hamza(may God be pleased with him), the uncle of the Prophet
and leader of the martyrs. It is recommended to recite the verse a/-Kursi, surah al-
Ikhlas eleven times and surah Ya-sin, and donate the rewards to all the martyrs.


It is recommended to visit the Mosque of Quba' on Saturday and pray in it. Ibn
Umar said[The Prophet used to visit the mosque of Quba' every Saturday riding
or walking and prayed two rak'ahs in it].' It is also recommended to visit other
mosques, such as the Mosque of al-Fat'h, the Jumu'a Mosque, the Mosque of al-
Fadikh and the Mosque of al-Ahzab, the confederates.


o, ٢%,
"~~ ٠ @


"~


All praise is due to Allah, the one who enlightened the hearts and minds and
permitted such a task. I ask Allah Most High to make this a means by which
others may learn their religion and a means of attaining nearness to Him. May
Allah accept this effort and accept us, guide us, teach us what is beneficial and
unite the nation of Muhammad(God bless him and grant him peace). This task
began on the ٠١/٠٢/٢٠٠٦ and was finalised on the ١٠/١١/٢٠٠٧.


" Muslim.
? Bukhari and Muslim.


GLOSSARY


٤٣٩


Adhan - the call to prayer
Amin - amin
Amir - lit. one who commands, the source of authority in any situation


Amir al-Muminin - the Commander of the Believers, a title of respect given to the
Caliph

Ansar - the helpers, the people of Madina, who welcomed and aided the Messenger of
Allah(may Allah bless him and grant him peace).


Arafah - a plain ٢٤ km to the east of Makkah which stands the Mountain of Mercy,
where it is said that Adam was re-united with Hawwa(Eve)after years of wandering
after being expelled from the Garden Of Eden. One of the rites of the hajj is to stand
on Arafah on the ٩th Dhul al Hijjah.


Ashura - the ١٠th day of Muharram. It is considered a highly desirable day to fast.
'Asr - is the afternoon prayer

'Awrah - the parts of the body that must be covered.

Awsuq - plural of wasaq. One wasaq is equal to sixty sa'

Ayah - a verse of the Quran


Badr - a place where the first battle of the newly established Muslim community
fought. The outnumbered ٣٠٠ Muslims led by the Messenger of Allah(May Allah
bless him and grant him peace)overwhelmed and defeated ١٠٠٠ Makkan idol


worshippers.

Bani Isra'il - the tribe of Israel

Al-Bagi - the cemetery of the people of Madina

Bait al-mal - the public treasury

Dhikr - remembrance

Dhul al-Hijjah - the twelfth month of the Islamic calendar, the month of hajj
Dirham - silver coinage. One dirham is approx ٣.٠٨ grams of silver

Eid - a festival.


Eid al-Adha - a four day festival at the time of hajj. The Eid of sacrifice starts on the
١٠th of Dhul al Hijjah, the day the pilgrims sacrifice their animals.


Eid al- Fitr - the festival at the end of the fasting month of Ramadan

Fard - obligatory

Fasiq - disobedient, one who does not comply fully with the dictates of the Law.
Fatwa - is the plural of fatawa. Legal rulings issued by a jurist.


Fagih - an expert in figh[jurisprudence]. A jurist who has the ability to derive the law
from the texts of the Quran and Sunna.


٤٤٢

Fidya - compensation paid for rites missed or wrongfully performed because of
ignorance or ill- health

Figh - science of application of the Shari 'a

Fitnah - evil; trial; disruption; insurrection.

Fitrah - the first nature, the natural[natural disposition].

Ghusl - the full ritual washing of the body.


Hadath - is when a person is legally regarded as being in the state of minor impurity
as distinguished from mere physical impurity.


Hadith - reported speech, particularly of the Prophet Muhammad(may Allah bless
him and grant him peace)Hadith qudsi - those words of Allah that was narrated by the Prophet(may Allah bless
him and grant him peace).


Hadd - fixed penalties.

Hady - an animal offered as a sacrifice during the hajj

Hajj - the greater pilgrimage

Hajj al-Ifrad - hajj 'by itself without umrah.

Hajj al—Qiran - the joined hajj combining both hajj and umrah

Hajj al-Tamattu' - the 'interrupted hajj,' that is performing hajj at separate intervals
Halal - permitted by the Shari'a


Haram - forbidden by the Shari'a. Also a protected area around the ka'bah and
around the Prophet's Masjid where certain behaviour is forbidden and other
behaviour is necessary.


Hayd - menstruation
Hijaz - the region of Arabia in which Makkah, Medina, Jeddah and Ta'if are situated


Hijra - to emigrate in the way of Allah. Islam takes its dating from the hijra of the
Holy Prophet(may Allah bless him and grant him peace)to Medina.


Hiqqah - a she-camel that has entered its fourth year.

'Thada - worship

Ihram - a condition adopted on a person during hajj or umrah.

Imam - Muslim ruler; the person leading the prayers.

Iqama - the call which announces that the obligatory prayer is about to begin.
Iqtida - following another in prayer.


Irtithath - availing some faculties before death after being wounded in battle. It
includes eating, drinking, sleeping, and taking medicines or being transferred alive
from the battlefield.





Isnad - the chain of transmission of a tradition.
I'takaf - religious retreat(seclusion)Izar - a piece of cloth used as a waist wrapper by both men and women


Jamrah - a stone built pillar. Three are located in Mina and one of the rites of hajj is to
stone them.


Jamrah al Aqabah - one of the three Jamrahs located at Mina. It is situated at the
entrance of Mina in the direction of Makkah


Janaba - the state of major impurity on which a person requires the major bath. This
covers the condition resulting from ejaculation while asleep or awake, with or without
sexual intercourse and sexual intercourse with or without ejaculation.


Mimbar - steps on which the imam stands to deliver the sermon on the day of Jumu'a
Mina - a valley ٨ km on the road to Arafah where the three Jamrahs are located.
Migat - one of the designated places for entering into ihram

Maharram - the first month of the Islamic year, which is based on the lunar calendar
Muhrim - pilgrim, a person in ihram

Mus'haf - the Quran in two covers

Mushrik - someone who attributes partners to Allah


Muzdalifa - a place between Arafah and Mina where the pilgrims returning from
Arafah spend a night


Nafl - a voluntary act

Najis - filth, impurity

Nisab - a minimum amount of wealth that zakat can be deducted from
Postnatal bleeding - The blood that is discharged after a woman gives birth
Prostration - when one places his knees, hands and forehead on the ground
Qibla - the direction of prayer, that is the holy ka'bah

Qunut - supplication made while standing in the witr prayer


Quraysh - one of the great tribes of Arabia. The Messenger of Allah(may Allah bless
him and grant him peace)belonged to this tribe


Rak"ah - a unit of prayer, a complete series of standings, bowings, prostrations and
sittings


Ramadan - the month of fasting, the ninth month of the Muslim calendar
Ruku - the bowing posture in prayer
Sadagqah - giving in the way of Allah, especially wealth


Safa and Marwah - two hills close to the ka'bah. It is part of hajj and umrah to go
seven times between each hill


Sahur - the pre-dawn meal

Sajda - the act of making prostration

Salat - prayer

Sa'iy - going between Safa and Marwah seven times
Sha'ban - the eighth month of the Islamic calendar


Shahada - the affirmation that 'there is no deity but Allah and Muhammad is the Messenger of
Allah'


Shahid - a martyr


Shari'a - is the Sacred Law based on the Quran and the traditions of the Holy
Prophet(may the peace and blessing of Allah be upon him)Siwak - a tooth stick used for brushing usually from the 'Araq tree
Sujud - the position of prostration


Sunna - the practice of the Messenger of Allah(may the peace and blessing of Allah be
upon him)Sultan - ruler

Sutrah - an object placed in front

Tahajjud - voluntary prayer at night, between the 'Isha and the Fajr prayers
Takbir - the saying of 'Allahu Akbar'(Allah is Great).

Talbiyah - the calling of 'labbayk'


Tarawih - extra night prayers, usually done in congregation in the month of
Ramadan.


Tashahhud - lit. to make shahada. It is said in the final sitting position of each two
rak'ah cycle


Tawaf - circling the ka'bah, tawaf is done in sets of seven circuits

Tayammum - Dry ablution with sand or clean earth

Umrah - the lesser pilgrimage. It can be performed any time of the year.
Wajib - see wajib in the definitions of the opening chapter.

Wali - guardian granted authority by the law.

Witr - the odd prayer

Wudu - ablution, minor ablution

Zakat - poor due

Zakat al-Fitr - charity, required per head. This is paid on the day of Eid al-Fitr.