١٣٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


With regards to the sunset prayer(magfrid), the caller is to separate between the
adhan and igama the amount of time it takes to recite three short verses or the
time it takes to walk three steps and he is to repeat some of the sayings after the
adhan, such as prayer, prayer, O worshippers,' or 'rise to prayer.'


Leted ٠ Se
That Which Is Disliked In The Adhan And Igama
alah y ¢ Dtoekl bil yo Cred o Soy


It is disliked to melodise the adhan, i.e. to sing the call in a way that changes the
words or to commit mistakes in the expressions. It is disliked for the caller to be
in a state of minor impurity when announcing the adhan and igama. Though if one
does so, it is valid.


JEU ٩٦ Gold g cal aly COI Sry Oye ye fi Y poy Cott ality


It is disliked if the announcer of adhan is, i)in a state of major ritual impurity(janaba), ii)a boy who has not yet acquired intellect, iii)insane or under the
influence of alcohol, iv)a female or v)an immoral person. And it is disliked for
adhan to be called whilst sitting.


AVY! ٥٤٩ Gale]any UBY! Gy OBI IE G ISI,


It is disliked for the caller to speak during the adhan and the igama even if it was
for returning salam. And if he does so during the adhan, it is recommended to
repeat it, though not the igama.


pall gaetl ey ppb ol,


It is disliked to call adhan and iqama for the noon prayer(dhuhr)on Friday in the
city. This means, people in the city who have missed the Friday assembly prayer
with the imam, are not to call the adhan and iqama for the dhuhr prayer,
regardless if one has missed the prayer due to a reason or not and regardless if
one is performing the prayer in a group or not. Also, this dislike is specifically
targeted at city locations where the Friday prayer is held, because the village
dwellers who live outside the city are not required to attend the Friday prayer
according to the Hanafi Madhhab which means it is not disliked for these people
to call adhan and iqama in their area and pray dhuhr, because for them it is the
prescribed prayer of that time.

