٣٩٤ BOOK V: ZAKAT


If a person pays the sadaqah al-Fitr a day or two in advance, it is valid. Some
scholars maintain that it may be paid in advance by ten days and even halfway
through Ramadan, while others held that it is valid to pay one month in advance,
which is at the beginning of Ramadan.


Cee BST gh ee pe UI ebne I LG ye ee nee gh Ye JS Jy
It has also been stated by some scholars that if it is advanced a year or two, it is
valid, while others held, that if it is paid ten years or more in advance, it is valid.


The sadaqah of fttra is not excused if it is delayed, even if one extended the delay.
However, one has committed an offence due to the delay.


pal Greys oF SI GloY!
The Types Of Things That May Be Used To Pay Sadagah Al-Fitr
' Sede petty pally St Gol dn fool» pillars ¢ Fy
Sadaqah al-Fitr can be paid with one of the four following types of food; i)wheat,
ii)dates, iii)barely, iv)raisins(sultanas).
el II laa
The Required Amount
tall gl patll oe Glee she tigen s]abo gl jl oy ple tea pl JS oe EBs


The amount due per person is half a measure[sa']of wheat, flour or sawik(which
is a mix of wheat and barley)or one may give one full measure of dates and
barley.


AF pte gy Gl ee ANU pay de Glace SU pe Ce ly
CH Ly leads pall JIL platy


According to Abu Hanifa, raisins are in the same grade as wheat. Whereas Abu
Yusuf and Imam Muhammad held that raisins are in the same grade as barley.
Al-Shafi"i said that for all these things there is one sa' due to the tradition of Abu
Sa'id al-Khudri(God be pleased with him)who said, "This is what we used to pay
during the period of the Messenger of God."" The Hanafis adopt the hadith
previously mentioned; where the Prophet said in his sermon[Pay for each free
person and slave, the young and old, one half sa' of wheat or one sa' dates or one
sa' of barley]. What al-Shafi'i related is interpreted to mean what is paid in excess


" An-Nasai ٢٥٠٣. This hadith is recorded by the six sound compilations in long and short
versions.

