BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٧٩
als Silas EL
The T; Wealth On Which Zakat Must Be Paid
٢ linda Gals Od
There are five types of wealth on which zakat is compulsory;
Lady all yey sell: Jy


١- The first is gold and silver whether it is in the form of bullion, jewellery, cash or
bank notes. The value of these is to be equal to the amount discussed ahead.


Mise cyl ce fd y WUE ally athy PIN gas oily dt: GUL,


٢- The second is livestock and they are camels, cows and sheep(which is agreed
upon in the Madhhab). According to Abu Hanifa zakat is required upon horses.


Note; livestock refers to cattle that graze on pastures.
cipal ٤٥ ٦: OU,
٣- The third is merchandise of trade once it equals the value of the nisab.
ASS gaol oe SWE: ely


٤- The fourth is on that which the earth produces from crops and plantations of
fruit(food crops).
tS SN ' ow lel ٣


٥- The fifth is treasure troves(minerals, gas, coal etc.).


٣٨٠ Book V: ZAKAT





leelS٣y gpa ola


The Nisab(Minimum Amount)On Gold And Silver
Wie oy Re td fb IBY ge gile Ladll jogs Wie op te A op ale > sat deg Vu
lie Lanai oy all ry td ry


The nisab is the portion of wealth(minimum amount)a person owns that requires
him to pay zakat. If a person possesses this nisab(minimum amount)for a
complete lunar year, the poor now owns this portion and the owner is obliged to
pay zakat.


Zakat is not due on gold until it reaches twenty mithgols(the approximate weight
being ٨٧ grams)." And with respect to silver, there is no zakat due on it until there
is ٢٠٠ dirhams(the approximate weight being ٧٠٠ grams). This is the nisab(minimum amount)which is required before zakat becomes due. When the gold
reaches twenty mithqols(or ٨٧ grams), it is necessary to pay ٢.٥ % on it — which is
half a mithqol. Note: if a person owns currency that equals this value, then one must pay
zakat on it.


ulate ٢ op tal fo ng Joe deal IS es


Then, for every four mithgols(in excess of the twenty mithgols), one is to pay one
tenth of a mithgol(or the equivalent value).' This means that when there is twenty mithgols
of gold(or ٨٧ grams; or one possesses currency that equals the value of this amount), ٢.٥% is
required. The additional amount that is over and above the twenty mithgols incurs no fee until
it reaches four mithgols(or ١٧.٤ grams). When it does reach four mithgols(one tenth of a
mithgol or its value is due).


Se a٥ ٥٢ Swart IS bo pala dee gay poll ey led ry pane ole Lal CAL ١٣)bdaly pa yo sl


When the silver reaches ٢٠٠ dirhams, it is necessary to pay ٢.٥% on it, which is
five dirhams. Then, for every forty dirhams(after the initial ٢٠٠), one dirham is
due.


AAG INOS Jy Dall yy Lal oe al le IS GL det y tery gl IG die Ioan lin,
This is the ruling held by Abu Hanifa(with respect to the amount that increases


upon the nisab), whereas Abu Yusuf and Muhammad said, whatever increases
upon the minimum amount(nisab)requires ٢.٥% to be paid even if it is very little.





"A mithqol(synonymous here with a gold dinar)is a gold piece.[Kitab al-Athar ١٦٦]. Note: the
figure of ٨٧ grams for gold and the ٧٠٠ grams for silver is from taken from Maraky al-Falah[The Figh of Abu Hanifa And Its Proofs, Vol, ١{٣٣١| - Maraky al-Falah ٤١٠.

* Note: one mithqol equates to approx ٤.٣٥ grams. Four equates to ١٧.٤ grams.
* Note: ٤٠ dirhams equate to ١٤٠ grams, because | dirham equates to ٣.٥ grams. Therefore ٤٠ x
٣.٥ equals ١٤٠ grams. Hence, ٧٠٠ grams requires ٢.٥%. And for every ١٤٠ grams after that, one
dirham is due.


Book V: ZAKAT ٣٨١


Therefore, the two jurists maintain that whatever amount exceeds the ٢٠ mithqols
or ٢٠٠ dirhams is subjected to zakat by the same calculation. The basis for this
view are the words of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))addressed to Ali[What is in excess of the ٢٠٠ dirhams is subjected to its
prescribed rate]." Abu Hanifa relies upon the words of the Prophet in a tradition
of 'Amr ibn Hazm[There is no sadaqa in what is less than forty]."


Summary of zakat on gold


A)There is no zakat on any gold less than ٢٠ mithgols(or ٨٧ grams), b)when
there are ٢٠ mithgols and a lunar year passes over it, then half a mithqol is due
upon it(or ٢.٥%), c)then, for every ٤ mithqols after the initial ٢٠ mithqols, one
tenth of a mithqol is due. Note: if, after the initial ٢٠ mithqols there is some
excess, but it is less than ٤ mithqols, no zakat is due, d)zakat is imposed on gold
and silver dust as well as on jewellery and utensils made of them. Shafi'i said that
it is not imposed on women's jewellery nor on silver rings for men. The reason is
that it is lawful; therefore, they are similar to dresses worn. The Hanafis maintain
that the cause is wealth that grows, and the evidence of growth is present and that
is its readiness for use in trade by the very nature of its creation. This evidence is
legally acknowledged as distinguished from dresses.' Imam Muhammad said: "As
for jewellery consisting of gems and pearls, there is no zakat due on that, whatever
the case, but if it is gold and silver jewellery, then zakat is due upon it, unless it
belongs to an orphan, boy and girl, who has not come of age, in which case there
is no zakat due on their money. This is the verdict of Abu Hanifa."*


Summary of zakat on silver


A)There is no zakat on silver less than ٢٠٠ dirhams, b)if there are ٢٠٠ dirhams
and a lunar year passes over it, ٥ dirhams are due, c)if there is any excess,
nothing is due until it reaches ٤٠ dirhams; and then | dirham is due for it.
Likewise, for every ٤٠ dirhams after that, ١ dirham is due, d)if the predominant
part in silver metals or dirhams is silver, then their ruling is that of silver, but if
the predominant part is another metal, then their ruling is that of goods or
commodities. In addition; one must pay zakat on the currency that he has owned
for a complete lunar year if it equals at least the market value of ٧٠٠ grams of
silver. Since the zakat is for the benefit of the poor, if the money one owns
corresponds to the minimum value of silver, zakat must be paid.


" Abu Dawud.

This is found in the document of 'Amr ibn Hazm(God be pleased with him). Al-Zayla'i,
vol.٢, ٣٦٧.[Al-Hidaya ٢٦٨].

* Al-Hidaya ٢٦٩.

* Muwatta of Imam Muhammad ١٥٣. Kitab al-Athar ١٦٩.

