٣٤٦ BOOK IV: FASTING


tly SI lb ٣ ttoly US ٢٥٥ Y aS)! Ys of


If however, an expiation has occurred between two acts of sexual intercourse or
two acts of eating, then one expiation will not suffice and this is the evident view
on the matter as another expiation is required for the second violation.


BUS pe pe ¢ pall Laney be ol


What Nullifies The Fast Without Requiring Expiation


The following cases do not require expiation[kaffarah]on the basis that the nature
of the things that are eaten are such that they contain no nourishment, or they
may contain nourishment but there is a valid reason for their consumption.
Eating something of this nature would not impose the expiation, although the day
must be made up. Moreover, the act which does not include the completion of
desire concerning the genitals holds the same ruling, such as an orgasm due to
kissing.

Other examples include the swallowing of paper which does not require the
expiation on the basis that originally, it contains no nourishment. Equally, if there
is something that is inadequate of being nourishment, such as raw rice or dough
that is unmixed with butter, then the expiation is not required, whilst one is only
liable for the day. Therefore, the breaking of the fast is not one of nourishment or not one
where there is completion of carnal desire regarding the genitals. Additionally, the thing eaten
may contain nourishment, though there is a valid reason for its consumption.


Le O gens dame py
There are fifty-seven things that nullify the fast, but do not necessitate the expiation;
lass sl lie ٣)Cay ١٥٥٤ pilall si la!


If the person fasting eats raw rice, flour, or wheat grain, the fast is nullified
although the expiation is not necessitated.


indo |S LL gl


If a person eats a mouthful of salt, he is not liable for expiation for the reason that
it is not one's desire to have a mouthful of salt; hence, the circumstances are
different.


asl dead go sl pe Leb I
Eating soil that contains no medical benefit and not being in the habit of eating it,
invalidates the fast but does not require the expiation; for the reason that it serves


no medical purpose. Though if one was in the habit of eating this non-beneficial
earth, the expiation becomes necessary.


IAEIS yi Lad sf st ys gl


BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٤]Eating the stone of a fruit, cotton or paper, breaks the fast without necessitating
the expiation.


Geta dy Syed He pe ol
Eating uncooked quince or raw quince nullifies the fast whereas the expiation is
not imposed. Quince is a hard yellow shaped fruit which has to be cooked prior to
eating.
ib a٥ ٥x JI
Eating a raw walnut does not impose the expiation. If on the other hand one eats
a raw almond, then the fast breaks and the expiation is imposed.


Ware gL sgl Lys sl sla abut jl
Swallowing a pebble, metal, or soil, nullifies the fast while no expiation is
necessary.
haacenl gl - ol yl
Taking an enema or pouring drops(of medicine)through the nostrils breaks the


fast, whereas the expiation is not required. An enema is generally used when there
is a need, thus not requiring expiation. Note; an enema is having medicine
inserted through the anus. However, Abu Yusuf held that taking an enema and
pouring snuff through the nostrils or throat requires expiation.


mel fe nile Get ew eal yl


The forceful pouring of something down the throat nullifies the fast, but does not
require the expiation. And this is the most correct opinion.


el pele staal ٣ bil JI
To drip water or oil into the ears nullifies the fast, and this is the soundest view.
The fast is invalid because the fluid will inevitably reach the brain through this


action, though expiation is not required. The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[The fast is broken with whatever enters]."


ab leo gh ad gm II fro yy clyn ul si itl ٥٥١٠ I


Applying medicine to a wound of the stomach or head, which then penetrates a
cavity reaching the inside of the stomach or brain, nullifies the fast though does
not necessitate the expiation.


dana, dale dy eS elt gl jae ale Joo ٥l


If rain or snow water enters the throat, and is swallowed by accident, it breaks the
fast but does not require the expiation; and this is the most correct opinion. Note:
there is a difference between forgetfulness and accidental. If one swallows
forgetfully, the fast does not break.





Abu Yala. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٤٥٣-٥٤.

