٢٠٦ BOOK II: PRAYER





would rest).' Likewise, the six rak'ahs after the maghrib prayer are recommended
sunan as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[He who prayed
six rak'ahs after the maghrib prayer would be made equivalent to the worship of
twelve years].'


٤٢ Gry CEE cle y SUG GL Ys apts fo su jll Lel I oy Ug gS pares


When performing an emphasized sunna prayer which is four rak'ahs, one is to
limit the first sitting to the tashahhud only, and when one stands for the third
rak'ah, he is not to repeat the opening supplication(istftah),' contrary to a
voluntary prayer that consists of four rak'ahs, for verily in a four rak'ah voluntary
prayer, one is to recite the opening supplication and fa awwudh in the third rak'ah.
This is not the case with an emphasized sunna prayer.


٢ AN Ugad y Bday Be oslo LEN loc ene ba ol PY le dy eas oe ASI MIE Jo Ls
la ol» ltt


If one offers a voluntary prayer consisting of more than two rak'ahs(such as four)and does not sit for tashahhud except at the end, the prayer is deemed valid
because it has integrated as one prayer that included a compulsory sitting at the
end. Note: the validation of this prayer is based on the principle of Istihsan.
Istihsan literally means to approve or to deem something preferable. In its juristic
sense, Istihsan is a method of exercising personal opinion in order to avoid any
rigidity that might result from the literal enforcement of the existing law.


Melb tes al fe dl Se Sy
It is disliked to pray more than four rak'ahs of voluntary prayer in the daytime


with only one(pair)of salams. Meaning, four should be the maximum number of
rak'ahs a person prays; thereafter it is recommended to offer the finishing salams.
To offer more with only a single pair of salams at the end is disliked. Hence, one


pair of salams is to separate every four rak"ahs of voluntary day prayer.
Wd ole des
It is disliked to pray more than eight rak'ahs of voluntary prayer in the night with


only one(pair)of salams. Meaning, one pair of salams is to separate every eight
rak'ahs of voluntary prayer at night, otherwise, it is disliked.


Fi oy ote te LUNG pai Lacey die Glace pls ed Lai


The best practice in the day and night with respect to voluntary prayer is to
perform them in fours according to Abu Hanifa. A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))said that the Prophet would offer four rak'ahs, do not ask about their





" Abu Dawud, the Book of Prayer.

* Ibn Majah ١٣٧٤.

* This is also referred to as the opening praise or glorification[thana'], which is read for the
commencement of all prayers.


BOOK Hi: PRAYER ٢٠٧


excellence and length(since they were inimitable in perfection and length). He(secondly)would offer four rak'ahs, do not ask about their excellence and length."
There is also another narration that the Prophet was diligent in performing the
mid-morning |duha]as four rak'ahs and diligent in performing four at night-time].'
Although Imams Abu Yusuf and Muhammad held that the best practice in the
day is to perform voluntary prayer in fours' as Abu Hanifa held, whereas the best
practice at night is to perform them in pairs, and the fatwa issued is in accordance
with this. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The night vigil
prayer is offered as two rak'ahs followed by two rak'ahs].'


etl de cp jail LU,


Voluntary prayer at night particularly in the last third, is superior to voluntary
prayer in the day, since it entails greater difficulty and due to the saying of Allah:
"They forsake their beds of sleep, the while they call on their Lord, in fear and


hope: and spend(in charity)out of the sustenance which We have bestowed on
them."


dgredli SS oe Col ball J shy


To prolong the standing(in the night or day prayer)is better than performing a
large number of prostrations. Note: a person achieves a large number of
prostrations by praying more rak'ahs. Though if one lengthens his standing(i.e.
recitation)instead of this, it is the most excellent practice. The Holy Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked as to which prayer is the most
excellent one? He answered, "The prayer containing prolonged qunut."" The
scholars of hadith have interpreted qunut as standing in prayer. Thus, lengthy
recitation of Quran is the best prayer.°


JU tloly wall Bey domi ae ٣


Greeting The Mosque(Tahiyyah)The Prayer Of The Forenoon(Duha)And Night Vigil Prayers.


FIN NS aS p dallas ٥


It is sunna to greet the mosque with two rak'ahs of prayer before sitting. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If a person enters the
mosque, he is to not to sit until he offers two rak'ahs].' Note: Ibn Abidin in his
Hashia says: "Our scholars dislike its performance in the times disliked for prayer,
such as after fajr and 'asr. Therefore, if one enters after fajr or 'asr, he is not to offer


" Muslim ٧٣٨.

٢ Muslim ٧١٩.

٣ Bukhari ٩٩٠.

* AsSajda ١٦.

> Ibn Majah ١٤٢١.

® Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٠.
? Bukhari and Muslim.

