BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٣
Therefore, after the woman's regular days have ended, she cannot have intercourse unless a)she
performs the major bath; or b)offers tayammum(with a prayer); or c)a prayer time elapses on
her(in that she had sufficient time to wash and pray, but did not until a new time arrived).


In addition, if the bleeding ceases short of her regular days, though is more than
three days and less than ten(or less than forty days for post-natal bleeding), then
sexual intercourse is not permitted with her even if she bathes until she completes
her regular days. For example, her menstrual period routine may last for seven
days, but it stopped at five. In this case, sexual intercourse is not permitted even if
she bathes, because the return of blood is likely and this is unaffected by her
bathing before the completion of her regular days. However, she is to pray and
fast as a precautionary measure."


In sum, there are three scenarios arising from the time the blood stops. The first is
when the blood completely stops due to the woman reaching the maximum
duration for menses and postnatal bleeding. The second is when the blood stops
due to the woman completing her regular days; and this stoppage is short of the
maximum duration for menses and postnatal bleeding. The third is when the blood
stops short of her regular days.


Teall Oso ¢ pall oLuclly ald pats


A woman with menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding must repeat the days of
fasting she missed, not prayer. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))said[We were
encountered with it(menses and postnatal bleeding)thereupon we were ordered
to make up fasting, but were not ordered to make up prayer]." The reason prayer
is not required to be made up is because after five days which is the average days
of menstrual periods, the prayers have become many and this entails great
difficulty if a woman were required to make up her prayers. Allah therefore eased
the matter and excused them from having to do so after their menstrual period.
With respect to fasting, it is something which comes only once a year and does not
pose difficulty in their makeup due to having the comfort of time before the
arrival of the next Ramadan.[Radd al-Muhtar states.| Menses prevents one from the attaining the status of purity(such as the pure state required for prayer), though there is no harm in undertaking a
bath for physical hygiene, such as the bath for hajj; and the Hanafi scholars did
not deem it unlawful. In-fact, they say it is recommended for the female to
perform wudu for the time of each prayer and sit upon her prayer mat and make
invocations and utter the shahada repeatedly according to what she is able so that
she does not forget her routine of prayer. And in one narration, it states that it is
written for her as the best prayer she used to offer. Moreover, menses prevents
i'tikaf and its validity; and if a woman begins her ¢ 'tikaf in a pure state, menses





" Hashia Ibn Abidin, vol ١/٤٩٠ - Beirut Second Edition, Dar al-Kutub alIlmiyya | AL
Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٥٢.
? Muslim, ٣٣٥.

