BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣١


ern


When Is One Required To Make A Will
aod oy ale wile io gl ales


A person who breaks his fast in Ramadan even when he had no reason to break it,
is required to make a will instructing his heirs to pay the fidya for the days he was
able to make up but did not and thus remained a debt upon him until he died.
This means that if the person was capable of making up the days, but did not and
thereafter died, leaving the lost days as a debt, then he is to make a will for those
days which he was able. In the will, this person is to leave instructions for his heirs
or responsible family member to redeem the missed days for him.


ana gl yop ple Ciaaie Syl > Cis JSDLaly oy Sepa SSL LU ye aly ae ded


The heir(or responsible family member)is to pay this debt from the third of the
wealth, which the deceased left, for every day of fasting and every prayer that was
missed, even the witr prayer; the fee to be paid is half a measure of wheat[sa']or
its equivalent value, though the equivalent value is better because of the varying
needs of the poor, and this amount or its equivalent is given for each prayer or
fast missed. If however the deceased does not make a will leaving instructions for
his next of kin, then it is not necessary for his next of kin to pay his debt, though
he is still permitted to do so. And the way to compensate for each day of fasting
that was missed by the deceased is by feeding a poor person as the Prophet((God
bless him and give him peace))said[Whosoever dies while some fasts of the
month were outstanding against him, the needy should be provided a meal on his
behalf in lieu of the fast of each day];' and with respect to prayer, a single prayer
is regarded like a complete day of fasting, and this is the correct view whilst other
scholars maintain that a whole day of prayer is equivalent to making up one day
of fasting.'


de Ny ce G٥٩ ey hdl ys


And if the deceased did not make a will before dying, but his next of kin pays the
debt on his behalf anyway, it is permissible God willing, for Imam Muhammad
held that if the next of kin pays the due, it is permitted God willing.


ace fa TY ¢ pas ol nes Vy


It is not permissible to fast on behalf of the deceased, nor can one pray on behalf
of the deceased. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[One
cannot fast on behalf of another and one cannot pray on behalf of another,
however, one may feed(others)on his behalf.' As for other narrations contrary to


'Ibn Majah ١٧٥٧
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٦١.
* An-Nasai ٢/١٧٥.


٢٣٢ BOOK It: PRAYER


this, is the saying of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[Whoever died and upon him remained fasts, his custodian fasts them on his
behalf];" verily this has been annulled. Thus, it is not correct for people to give money
to the poor, so that they(the poor person)can fast and pray on behalf of the
dead?"

AS


A Method In Acguitting The Deceased Of His Debt
CW ai tage pb ٦ opp Call ye eid pda)slut U٣ dy ade lee go IL id oly
Liang ental)SI aad be anaairy Sl pill days pd oo ptt etd pia andy oS ands y
ples Mee op call Je ulS Lb bd, o>


If the deceased does not leave enough wealth to suffice what he had directed his
next of kin to pay, then the next of kin is to pay that small amount of wealth to a
poor person, in which case he reduces a portion of the debt owed in prayer and
fasting days depending on the amount he gave, and then after the poor person
takes the wealth, he voluntarily gives it back to the next of kin who collects it.
Then again, the next of kin pays the wealth back to the poor individual in which
case another portion of the debt of the deceased is lifted according to that amount
of wealth. Then the poor individual voluntarily returns the money to the next of
kin who collects it. Then the next of kin pays the money again to the poor
individual in that another portion of the debt has been cleared etc. until the debt
of the deceased owed from the prayers and fasting days are cleared.


qidl das ok
Recipients Of Fidya[Fee
pel SLs y alae ably ret E US GSy Uy tol)Sl plo ٢٥ ole! ٥ yy
It is permissible to give the entire fee[fidya]to one poor person for all the
outstanding prayers, though one cannot do this if he is paying the fee of a broken
oath, because with respect to broken oaths, the payment is specified. Allah says{He(Allah)will call you to account for deliberate oaths: for expiation, feed ten
indigent persons, on a scale of the average for the food of your families].*

