٤٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


wiping it suffices. Some held that it is sufficient to wash or wipe one third of it,
while others maintained that its ruling is like that of a small beard. However, the
view in the bold text above is the correct one. Furthermore, in Arabic text prior to
this paragraph, the author of Nur al-Idah used the word wajib instead of
obligatory, though what he meant in this particular instance is obligatory as was
made evident in his explanation in Maraky al-Falah.


Sat oN ٥ py Sf oll Slay(٤٢ te: od OHS


It is obligatory for water to reach the skin of a person with a small beard, one of
the reasons being that it is easy to wash and poses no hardship.


Ca te ck oye SUI Le SEV y am gil ٨ slo pe atl pe fee all Sf ell Jes! Ut Vy


It is not necessary for water to reach the hair that stretches from outside the
border of the face." And neither is it necessary for water to reach the section of
the lips that is hidden when the mouth is closed during wudu because what is
unseen is linked to the mouth and what is apparent is linked to the face.


Sa)ry TS lll ay Lb IS gl LGV)badd Abad JI i Leal
tls je(٢ sil


If the fingers are tightly held together in a manner that prevents water from
flowing in between them or the finger nails have grown over the finger tips and
prevented water from reaching the tips or if there is something which prevents
water from the skin such as dough, it becomes obligatory to wash it after
removing the obstruction.


apg Cel le py Oslo Vy


Substances such as insect dropping, the dung of fleas and things of the like do not
prevent water from reaching the skin. The washing is valid in the presence of such
things.


Goal EI Ob Fes


" That which is outside the perimeter or bounds of the face is not required to be washed.
Ibn Hajar explains in Sharh al-Minhaj: that which grows at the lower part of the chin is not
required to be washed, because when it grows, it will be outside the perimeter of the face.
As for what grows on the perimeter, one is required to wash what is within the perimeter
and not the excess outside the border; and likewise, the hair which grows within the
bounds of the face upon the cheeks is required to be washed, though not the surplus(outside the bounds). It is for this reason that al-Badai' states that the correct view is that it
is compulsory to wash the hair that meets with the cheeks(i.e. that which meets with the
perimeter)and that which is apparent on the chin, though not the extended part of the
beard outside the perimeter. According to Shafi'i, this is required.[Radd al-Muhtar ١/٢١٥].


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ٤٩


It is mecessary to move around the tight ring during wudu on the basis that it
prevents the water from reaching the skin; and when the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))performed wudu, he moved his ring."


Uged dandy Si el pat fo ol Ip]Sle ale Git Leos Jy


If the washing of cuts on one's feet would cause harm or pain, it is permitted to
pass water over the medicine that is placed on the cuts.


ei sbey opt pal LAN Ys ail> tay ail and yo fo LaIY, a lobe Vy


One is not required to repeat the wiping on the place of the hair after it has been


shaved, and neither is one required to repeat the washing after cutting his nails or
moustache.


+٢ gl ope Oly b fad
The Sunan Of Wudu
Lt ees G
There are eighteen practices that are sunna in wudu;
cre MM cpt ne


١ — Washing the hands to the wrists prior to performing wudu. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((If one of you awakes from sleep, he
should not dip his hand in the container until he washes it three times, for verily
he does not know where his hand was)).?


٢ — To begin with the tasmiyyah, which is "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most
Compassionate." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is
no prayer for one with no wudu, and there is no wudu for one who does not
mention the name of Allah on it]. The meaning of the hadith here is the denial of
perfection. In addition, there is a narration from the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))that the tasmiyya is to say: "In the name of Allah, the Magnificent
and all praise be to Allah for the religion of Islam." In addition, if one says at the
beginning of wudu, "There is no god except Allah," or "Praise be to Allah," or "I bear
witness that there is no god except Allah," then one has fulfilled the sunna.*


odd ee a TL Sy clan! § SN,


" Ibn Majah, The Book of Purification and its Sunna ٤٤٩.
? Muslim ٢٥٢.

> Abu Dawud ١٠١.

* Al-Madhahib al-Arba'a, vol.١, ٦٢.

