٢٣٠ BOOK II: PRAYER


If a person prays in a sitting posture offering it through bowing and prostration,
but then recovers from illness, he is to continue the prayer, although if one
offered part of his prayer nodding with his head, but is thereafter able to bow and
prostrate, he is not permitted to continue the prayer according to all the Hanafi
jurists because a person cannot form the stronger element upon the weaker
element. This person must therefore begin the prayer from the start. For example;
if one commences his prayer by nodding his head and through the course of his
prayer, he recovers and is able to pray normally, then he cannot complete the
prayer and must start a new one.


VAST hye gab ol phe nm ale gtd sl oe oy


If one suffers from insanity or a loss of consciousness(fainting)for five prayers or
less, then he is liable to make them up. If the prayers missed exceed five, i.e. the
sixth prayer time expires, then he is not liable to make them up.


erally sail bin! §


When Prayer and Fasting Are Excused from One's Responsibility'


slat Y


When Is One Not Required To Make A Will
AB hy be Lea W aah Ve eV stall fo pte dy ay dt ob ١٣}If a sick person dies and was unable to pray through indication(i.e. nodding),
then it is not necessary on him before dying to make a will[wastyyaA]instructing
his heirs to pay the fee for the prayers, even if they were only a few.


dmevally GY! LF ley pay My SLM AS il Ol p pall iS,


This is also the case if a traveller or sick person breaks his fast in the month of
Ramadan, but dies before residence and before sound health. This means, the
traveller died before becoming a resident and the sick person died before
regaining sound health. Verily, they are not required to make a will instructing
their heirs to redeem the lost days, because in both situations they were not in a
position to make up the days.





" It is mentioned through Sacred text, that if one is unable to fast on the day required, then a
fidya(fee)is to be paid; and scholars have agreed that the same applies to prayer. When a
person recovers, he is still liable to make up the unperformed days. The fee is half a measure{sa]of wheat or its equivalent value.[For measurements and weights, see page ٢٨).

