BOOK I: PURIFICATION ١٠٩


WY ٩٥ SI Hey oF ses


Likewise, the specks of urine such as that of the head of the pin are excused even
if they come onto one's dress and body. The reason this is the case is because one
cannot prevent this most of the time.


WOVE ye Lege pally QA gf elet AT gb eth fl gl tl Soe op Obes OI I ALS bel Sy


If a bed or soil that has previously been stained by filth, becomes wet because of
the sweat of one who slept on it or because of one's wet feet upon the soil, and as
a result the trace of filth appears on the body or feet, then both are regarded as
impure. If the trace of filth does not appear on the body or feet, then they are not
regarded as impure. The traces of filth are colour, smell, and taste. For example,
if the mattress of a bed that was previously stained by urine became wet due to
the sweat of the person who slept on it, then it is deemed impure if the filth
appears on one's body or clothes. The same rule applies to soil that has previously
been stained by filth and then becomes wet due to the wet feet of a person.


ree Sob NM pas Vib; pe GD ple dk Oy rs VIS


Likewise, a dry clean cloth does not become impure when wrapped in a filthy damp
cloth which does not drip when it is squeezed. The dry cloth remains clean
because the actual substance of the filth cannot separate onto the clean one since
nothing drips from it if it is pressed. For example; a damp unclean sweater that does
not drip any water if it is squeezed is accidentally placed among clothes that are
clean and dry. An unaware person then wraps the filthy sweater with the dry clean
clothes. The result is—the dry clean clothes are not regarded as impure with such a
thing. |
oe ٣ Lob Las ٥٥ Joe py bys pee Vy


A wet cloth does not become impure if it is spread out on dry unclean soil such as
dried urine, and the earth has become damp through the wetness of the cloth. For
example, someone urinated on the ground and an hour later it dries up. One then
comes along and spreads out his wet jumper on this ground where this person had
urinated. He does exactly that, and as a result the ground becomes wet because of
the jumper. Consequently, the jumper remains pure unless some trace of filth
appears on the jumper.


a٣ I gy OY]o Sool Obs Joc wy Vy


Furthermore, a cloth does not become impure if it has been struck by a wind that
has blown over some filth, unless the filth becomes visible on the clothes. In other
words, if a wind blows over some filth and thereafter blows over items of clothing
or the like, the clothes are not deemed filthy or impure unless the filth is evident
on the items.


" See table ٣ at the end of this chapter.

