BOOK III: FUNERALS ٣٠٧


Ball[٢٥ cp Wace Le ait Sam ys


The deceased is made to face the qibla, upon his right side as the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))ordered, when he said[The Bait al-Haram is your
qibla, alive or dead]," thereafter, the knot of the shroud is undone as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))ordered the knot of Samrah to be loosened.


ENG Se)dle SIN yy


Unbaked bricks and bamboo(cane)pieces are then placed over the niche opening
closing off the lateral hollow dug into the side of the grave(with respect to the
lahd type where the body is placed). AlJami al-Saga'ir states that it is recommended
to use mud and cane because a bundle of cane was used on the grave of the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)).'


tly Woy


The use of baked bricks or wood is disliked as these take the rule of construction
and beautification whereas the grave is the place of decay. Al-Hidayah states that
the effect of fire on bricks is detested as it entails bad omen.


SVL ٥ puss


It is recommended to curtain the grave of a female with a sheet until the bricks
have been placed over the niche, though not for the grave of a man, unless there
is a necessity, such as to repel rain. Ali((God be pleased with him))once passed by
people who were burying a deceased, in which they placed a cloth. Thereupon Ali
said[This is performed with women, not men].'


The grave is then filled with earth as a cover for the deceased. It is also
recommended to sprinkle three scoops of earth upon the grave. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed the funeral prayer and then
attended the grave and inserted earth near the head thrice."


Cet V٩ sil py


The grave is to be shaped like a hump and is not to be flattened into a square(cube)shape because the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))prevented
such actions."


dy Mate etl ٢٥
" Abu Dawud ٢٨٦٩
Ibn Abi Shaybah. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٣٠٣/٣٠٤. Al-Hidayah.
٣ Al-Baihaqi ٤/٣٤.
' Darqutani ٢/٢٧.


> Muslim ٩٦٨.


٣٠٨ BOOK Ill: FUNERALS


To build something on the grave for beautification is unlawful. Buildings on
graves have been emphatically denounced by the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))[The Prophet forbade the graves to be plastered, or they be
used as sitting places or a building to be built over them]."


Cobal pill y LAM GY)obit te: lS DU(ate LSI)٠ Sy


To build something strong upon the grave after the burial to strengthen it, is


disliked because this will last for life times whereas the grave is the place of decay.
cee Ys SM ad Wd ade StL LY,


There is no harm in writing on(or marking the grave)to prevent its signs from
vanishing and prevent it from being desecrated, and so it can be visited and
respected and serve as a reminder to others.


eA sal mele LVL awolrars S gS yall Soy


It is disliked to use the homes as a burial place, for this is specifically for the
Prophets. Al-Kamal stated, "Neither the small child nor the adult is to be buried
in the house they died in, for this is specifically for the Prophets."


To ٣ Galle Sy


It is disliked to bury a deceased person in places termed alFassagy(like a cellar,
vault, or crypt)which is like an enclosure that is joint to the house, large enough
to occupy a group of people standing. It is disliked because it is contrary to the
sunna.


ADL oI IS oy ty toa pal ٣ Gsoly y AT ypu GLY,


There is no harm in burying more than one body in a grave when there is a need,
and between every corpse, there is to be a division with soil. This was what the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))ordered in some battles, such as the
battle of Uhud.'


PSS My de des iS ٩ Je oy pall Hey ee MOIS Se Gok ory


Whoever dies on a ship and is away from land and it is feared that the body will
cause harm to others, then the deceased is washed, shrouded and prayed over,
and thereafter released into the water. Imam Ahmad Ibn Hanbal held that the
deceased is to have a weight placed upon him in order to sink to the bottom of the
ocean, and Imam Shafi'i held the same view if they are near the land of the
enemy, otherwise the body is placed tightly between two planks to obviate
bloating and thrown into the sea so that it reaches the shore.


ae ASN ahi Sy LW inks gh fee ٣٥ al LG J Ob J lacs ernie Gln,


" Muslim ٩١٠.
* Bukhari ١٣٤٥.


BOOK I!I; FUNERALS ٣٠٩


It is recommended to bury the deceased in the cemetery of the area he dies in or
is killed. There is no harm if the deceased is moved a distance of one or two miles
before being buried because the distance to the place of burial may amount to
that expanse. Though it is disliked to transport the deceased more than this.
Likewise, it is disliked to move the body from one city or country to another.


beth Oil ١a pains ٥ NOS OF VI pla Wk cio ae dls yt Vy


After the deceased is buried(that is, earth has been filled on top), it is not
permitted to move the deceased to another location according to consensus,
unless the land was taken by force and the owner wants to remove all bodies and
reclaim his right or unless the ground is taken due to right of Shuf'ah(Preemption). Shuf"ah or preemption can be simply defined as the right to
purchase something before others. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Whoever has date-palm trees or land, should not sell it until he offers(the would-be bought thing)to his partner)." The neighbour is therefore more
entitled to purchase the land before others. An example which pertains to Shuf'ah
and the removal of the deceased is the following: a person who owned land sold it
without informing his neighbour. This new owner then buries someone on the
land. However, the neighbour who had forwarded a legal claim with the judge is
awarded the land on the basis of preemption. As a result, this new owner is
permitted to relocate the deceased body or bodies or he may opt to leave them.'


ea EV, Nid peso! jo IG pls
If a person is buried in a grave that was excavated for someone else, then the


value of the excavation is to be paid, and the deceased is not to be removed from
the grave, for it is now his right.


a٣ bi. pl


It is permissible to unearth the grave to search for goods that fell in it such as
clothes or money. It is also maintained that one should only remove soil from the
area he believes the goods fell and extract them.


all a Shey pas Ay


It is also permissible if shrouds were taken by force or theft and their owner will
not accept anything but the shrouds or something valuable remained with the
deceased in which case it is permissible to unearth the grave and retrieve these
effects. Abdullah ibn 'Amr said: When we went out along with the Apostle of God
to al-Ta'if, we passed a grave. I heard the Messenger of God say, "This is the
grave of Abu Righal. He was in this sacred house(sanctuary)protecting himself(from punishment). When he came out, he suffered the same punishment which
his people suffered at this place and he was buried in it. The sign of it is a golden


" Ibn Majah and an-Nasai.
f Maraky al-Falah ٣٤٦.

