٢٥٤ BOOK II: PRAYER


Likewise, it is replaced if one moves from one branch to another, or by exiting a
swimming area in a river or in a large reservoir, and this is the soundest view.


otal a Jan YL
That Which Does Not Alter A Sitting
SS ly Jas Vy


A sitting is not replaced by moving from one corner of a small house to another.
Meaning, that one may read the verses of prostration or hear it a number of times
and yet one prostration suffices in this sitting for all the recitations and hearings.


VS vs dnl,


Likewise, moving from one corner of the mosque to another does not replace the
first sitting even if the mosque is a large one because a person can be a follower
anywhere in the mosque where there is space.


ae rw Vy


Being on a moving ship does not alter a sitting, and the same ruling applies if it is
motionless.'(ead py)Gls SYS Sy SS(٤S)Ja(V٥)A sitting is not replaced by offering a rak'ah of prayer in which a verse of
prostration is repeated. This means that if one recites the verse of prostration
more than one time in the same rak'ah, one prostration suffices. This point is
agreed upon. Likewise, a sitting is not replaced by offering two rak'ahs of prayer
in which the verse of prostration is repeated according to Abu Yusuf, though
contrary to Imam Muhammad. In other words, if one recites a verse of
prostration once in one rak'ah and once more in the second rak'ah, the sitting
does not change according to Abu Yusuf, while it does to Muhammad. Therefore,
one prostration suffices according to Abu Yusuf.'


Sig JE G٩ ٩ ٩٥٩٩ Pld ٩ pry GL Vy Wi gh gong cad ISL a٢,
Drinking, eating two mouthfuls, or walking two steps does not replace a sitting.
Likewise, it is unchanged by leaning on something, or sitting and standing in the
same spot, or by mounting and dismounting a beast in the place one recites the
verse of prostration.


Lar(٠)S١٥١)cals ww Vy


A sitting is not replaced if one repeats the verse of prostration in his prayer upon
his moving beast.


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.
: Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.

