١٧٠ BOOK II: PRAYER
doltl jam bi. |
Exemptions From The Congregational Prayer
ee aE op dol lA yam hi,
The congregational prayer is excused if one of eighteen situations occurs;
un ٩ lb ٣٩٢ py pee
١- Heavy rain hard enough to wet one's clothing.


٢- In very cold conditions, i.e. a strong cold in which one fears for his safety.


٣- Fear from an oppressor. If one fears harm upon himself or that he may be
robbed of his possessions from a thief, whether it be a time of war or not, he is
excused.


٤- Darkness that is overwhelming.
٥- One who is confined, such as in lock up, custody or other.
Thojy Joys badly pliny Joys ty ahd y colds oes
٦- Being blind is deemed an exemption from the congregational prayer.
٧- If one suffers paralysis in some of his limbs[fa/j].


٨- If one has been dismembered losing his hand and leg, though if one is only
missing his hand, then he is not excused from the group prayer. If however one is
missing only a leg, then the correct verdict is that he is excused from the group


prayer.
٩- Poor health, such as flu or disease.
١٠- If one is crippled, i.e. unable to walk due to a crippling condition.


١١- In muddy conditions, one is exempt from having to attend the group prayer.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[If the shoes become wet,
then pray in the homes]."


١٢- If a person suffers from a chronic illness, he is exempt.
٦ yi tol BJS te pty
١٣- Old age and feebleness is deemed a valid excuse as it entails difficulty.


١٤- Gaining knowledge of jurisprudence[figh]in a group is regarded as a valid
excuse for missing the group prayer provided one would miss this class if he
attends the congregational prayer. Hence, one is excused in this situation.
However, for Arabic grammar one is not excused.


" Ibn Hajar — Takhlis al-Habir ٢/٣١.


ea BOOK Ii: PRAYER wl
dant ٤٣ ٩٣٥ plab ٥ a> ٣
١٥- In the presence of food which one desires, one is excused for the reason that,


at this time one's mind is preoccupied and is not able to be firm and complete in
all the pillars, necessary requirements and recommended actions of prayer.


paw dolly
١٦- Preparing to travel and fear of missing the convoy one is travelling with. Note:
The travel itself is not an excuse; it is the fear of missing the convoy."


dhe YAY gaz Baty ٦ pe per dolby


١٧- Attending or caring for a sick person is a valid excuse as it would cause the ill
patient harm and hardship in the absence of a carer.


١٨- In the presence of a strong blowing wind at night, not during the day, one is
deemed exempt. A strong blowing wind at night has the potential to cause
problems such as hurling fragments in one's face etc.

shel ge J fava aboecl doll Le slick ope pi t(D ٣٦ pbatil ٥],


If one is cut off from the congregational prayer due to one of the reasons(which
allows one to be excused), then he is still rewarded provided he intended to pray
in the congregation, and even if one intended but there was no excuse for him, he
is still rewarded. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Actions
are by intentions}."


Gyiall ٥٥)ULL GV
The Most Entitled To Be Imam And The Etiquette Of The Lines
ULYL GI
The One With The Most Right To Be Imam
ULV God le VG Otel. ٩٣ Vy deb y Vy je abe ep OU Ow oR A


١- If the owner of the place is not present among the people, and neither the
appointed imam or a person of authority,' then the most learned in the rules of
prayer has the most right to be imam even if he does not possess a deep
knowledge of other areas. Note: If all these individuals gathered, the sultan has





" Hashia Ibn Abidin[Maraky al-Falah ١٧١].
? Bukhari.


> Such as a leader[amir]or judge[gadi]. In reality, the person of authority and rule is superior to
all of them including the owner of the place and the appointed imam. This is because his
authority and rule is general and it was narrated by Bukhari: Ibn Umar would pray behind al-
Hijaj and it is enough to say that he was disobedient.[See Fat-h al-Bari ٢/١٩]. Note: it states ١n
al-Binayah that this occurred in the time of the past given that people of authority were scholars
and the majority of them were pious.[Maraky al-Falah ١٧٢].

