BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٣٧


of the west required to act in accordance with the sighting of the people of the
east?). One view maintains that each region takes its own ruling as held by az-
Zayla'i and the author of al-Fayd. It is also the sound view in the Shafi'i school.
However, the most evident opinion, which is relied upon in the Hanafi, Maliki
and Hanbali school is the latter view(that the first sighting is a sighting for all
Muslims)on the basis of the words of the Prophet "Fast when you see it.""


Muhammad Ali Sabuni in his Tafsir Ayat al.Ahkam explains whether or not different
regions are disregarded or accepted. He says: "The Hanafi, Maliki and Hanbali
schools maintain that the different regions are disregarded; so that if the moon is
seen in one country(or region), then it becomes necessary on the rest of the
regions in the world to fast or break the fast. This is because the Messenger's
words "Fast when you see it and break your fast when you see it" includes the entire
nation of Muhammad{ummah]. So whoever sees it in any place, then that sighting
is a sighting for all Muslims.[He adds.]The Shafi'i school maintains that each
region that is far from the other takes its own ruling and the sighting of one does
not count for the other.""


The Shafi'is hold that if the moon is confirmed in one district, then people of the
surrounding districts are required to fast if they are close. Such closeness is
determined as being less than twenty four farsakh.' As for those far away, they are
not required to fast on the basis that the regions differ.'


Moreover, it is worth noting that A'isha(God bless her and be pleased with her)said, "The breaking of the fast for each nation is the day their group breaks their
fast and the sacrifice[adha]of each nation is the day their group sacrifices."* Abu
'Isa explained that some of the people of knowledge explained this hadith by
saying that it means that the fast and the breaking of the fast is done with the
group and the masses of the people.


Jeol GAM ALY gay ote, sh Sy Ld OS oh le SH ٤٥ one V٥


If the moon is sighted during the day(whether it is before noon or after noon
time), it is disregarded and is considered as belonging to the following night, i.e.
the ruling of that day does not change, for the Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))said[Fast when you see it]clearly indicating that one must first see
the moon prior to fasting and what is understood from this, is sighting the moon
at night according to the Companions and the Tabi'in and those after them. And
this is the opted view on the matter.


' Radd al-Muhtar vol. ٣/٣٦٤ | Third Edition, Dar al-Kutub al-'IImiyya Beirut.

? Tafsir Ayat al-Ahkam vol. ١/١٩٦.

* Note: one farsakh is equivalent to three miles. Therefore, twenty four farsakh is equal to seventy
two miles.[Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٩].

' Kitab al-Figh 'Ala al-Madhaahib al-Arba'a, Abdur-Rahman al-Jaziri ٥٠٠.

> Talha reported it from A'isha in Al-Musnad from Abu Hanifa from Ali from Al-Ahmar from
Masrugq who said.[A]-Ikhtiyar vol. ١/١٨٦]. The same was mentioned by Tirmidhi ٦٩٧.

