BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨١


pag als sl


Its Pillars
ae gly cpAcll eames oS yy


There are two pillars of tayammum; they are to wipe the arms(with the elbows)and the wiping of the face. If a person neglects one of these, then his tayammum
is invalid.
Sunan Of Tayammum
dame mall cows
The sunan of tayammum are seven;


a plly ll GI


To say, "In the name of God, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate" at the start, and to
perform the actions in chronological order; namely, to wipe the face before the
hands(to the elbows).


oY sl,


To perform the actions of tayammum successively without pausing between them.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))was asked about the process of
wiping, and it is reported that[He struck the ground with his palms, then raised
them to his face, after which he struck the ground again and then wiped his arms,
the inner part and outer part until he touched his elbows with his hands]."


CC sglecdt ٣ SiS ss pall DD)Leo cer ily lqeaidy LA shal y ANS lets tes etl JLily


When a person places his hands upon the earth, it is sunna to rub them forward
and backward in the soil, after which he is to shake off his hands. In addition to
this, the fingers are to be open and spread from one another, not clenched when
striking the ground. The reason is to allow the earth to get in between the fingers
to ensure optimum cleaning. Note: the procedure of shaking the hands is by


hitting them together, and this is done by keeping the hands horizontal bumping
only the index fingers.


Abu Yusuf asked Abu Hanifa about how to perform tayammum and Abu Hanifa
clarified this by leaning over to clean earth and rubbing his hands in it forward
and backward, after which he raised his hands and shook them and wiped his
face. He then he repeated what he did with his hands by striking the ground a
second time and rubbing them forward and backward. Then he raised them,
shook them off and wiped each arm with the opposite hand including the inner
area of the arm up to the elbows.' The procedure of tayammum regarding the
arms is as follows: after one has struck the ground with his hands a second time,


" Darqutani in his Sunan ١/١٧٩.
? Maraky al-Falah ٧٧.

