٢٤٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


of forgetfulness provided he does not turn away from the direction of prayer,
leave the mosque or speak after having observed the salam. Moreover, if one
offers the salam remembering that he owes a prostration from one of the rak'ahs[sajda sulbiyya]or an obligatory act, the prayer is deemed void. The rule in this
regard is clear because the item is a pillar.


SHY deg gil pony re ail be pd ld él of ٢S ste, frm ay ls


If a person praying a four or three rak'ah obligatory prayer gives the final salams
thinking he has completed the prayer, but then learns he has only prayed two
rak'ahs, he is to complete the prayer by praying the rak'ahs he neglected and
make prostrations of forgetfulness.


VV Ly ppl a gree ale Cry ٥)elal pAb O١٥ O]opi med gm pln dy ٠ Kai lb Oy


If a person lengthens his thoughts or daydreams, and delays the final salams until
he becomes aware, then he is required to make prostrations of forgetfulness if this
time delay was equivalent to performing a pillar. If not, then he is not required to
perform prostrations of forgetfulness.


oe, .% .@,
"~° ~ "~


ALA ٥ pai
Doubt During Prayer
Saale pe SLES US gl GLI spo al oe Le yi pay ALS]L٥ OLS ١٥]ELS; ote G LIL Lal fas


If one is uncertain about the number of rak'ahs he has offered before the
completion of the prayer, and this was the first time that doubt had arisen after
acquiring maturity, or doubt which is not a regular occurrence, the prayer is void
and is to be commenced from the beginning. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[If one of you is in doubt as to how many rak'ahs he has
prayer, he is to start afresh].' Imam as-Sarakhsi held that what is meant here is
that doubt is not a regular occurrence. The meaning is not that one does not
forget at all, rather it is not routine.' Therefore, if a person has doubt about the
number of rak'ahs for the first time and then did not have doubt of that kind for
many years; after which it occurred, one is cease the prayer and commence a new
one because it is not a regular occurrence. Moreover, the prayer is to be ended
with actions that are deemed contrary to prayer. It cannot be discontinued with
the intention alone. This indicates that actions contrary to prayer are required.





ihram of the prayer remains, as long as one does not turn away from the qibla or speak.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩].

" Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩ / Ibn Abidin.

* Bukhari and Muslim.

: Maraky al-Falah ٢٨١.

