BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٤٩


ah cee dy Nols ٦g de IST I
If a person eats after making his intention of fasting in the day(and not
overnight), the expiation is not required as held by Imam Abu Hanifa. This was
also the view of Imam an-Nasafi who said, "Expiation is not necessitated if one
breaks his fast after having formed his intention in the daytime."" Zufar on the
other hand held that he is liable for expiation.


JS]SUG ٥ ٥ Lil anol sl
If a person begins the day as a traveller and then intends residence and thereafter


breaks his fast by eating, expiation is not necessary upon him even though it was
forbidden to eat.

SSE ete eral ete JL ol
If a person becomes a traveller after starting the day as a resident, and thereafter
breaks his fast by eating(while he is a traveller), expiation is not imposed upon
him, while he is liable for the day. In other words, if the fajr passes over a person
who has intended to fast that day and before he becomes a traveller, then it is not
permitted for him to break his fast that day, though if he does, then only the day
is required to be made-up."

Bab ٩ p po ٥ Lal sl
If a person abstains from eating with no intention of fasting and no intention of
breaking fast, then the day is not deemed a fast, however, the expiation is not
necessary upon this person, though he is required to make up the day because the
intention is a requirement.


Cle ay prill f gle GIL! aale sl aria sl
If one eats the pre-dawn meal(sahur)or has sexual intercourse during which he


has doubt about the rising of dawn, wherein reality it had already dawned, then
the expiation is not imposed on such a person, though the fast breaks.


ASL ay Oy pal phe phil |
The expiation is not imposed if a person breaks his fast believing that the sun had
set, when it had not.
ct NS Sl clas siti sh dene gh de ob y Sz si

An orgasm due to sexual intercourse with a dead woman or beast or an orgasm
caused by rubbing the genitals between the thighs of someone or by rubbing them
on the abdomen of someone, or due to kissing, touching, or masturbation, does
not impose the expiation, though the fast is void. Note: we stated earlier that if
there is no completion of pleasure by way of carnal desire through a location that
is desired, then the expiation is not necessary, and this is the case at hand. Even if


a person has an orgasm, it not regarded as complete for the reason that it is one
sided.


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٨٣.
* ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٤٢١.


٣٥٠ BOoK IV: FASTING


Olas yelal ne ¢ pao tui! ٥]There is no expiation if a person breaks a fast other than the fast of Ramadan,
though one is liable to make up the day.


USE Ay cocky yl


Having sexual intercourse with a sleeping woman or while she is temporarily
insane, does not necessitate the expiation due to the absence of offence on her
part.

ee ee bdo bil ٥!
The dripping of anything(such as liquid or the like)into the vagina breaks the
fast, but does not necessitate the expiation, and this is the most correct view as it
has a resemblance to an enema.


gad ٣ JEN gx ٥ Gabel slope d jo sl ole Uphe nel fool yl


Inserting a finger which is wet with water or oil into the anus or inner part of the
woman's vagina, does not impose the expiation, though the fast breaks and this is
the opted view on the matter.


SE ge id ol Gedy pa jth fool yl
Inserting a piece of cotton into the anus or the inside of the vagina to the extent
that it disappears, requires gada, though no expiation; even if it was a cloth or


something similar that disappeared. However, if the side or edge of the cotton(or
cloth)remains outside, then it is regarded as though nothing entered.


anna, blo aal> eal ٣


Expiation is not imposed if smoke is intentionally inhaled into the throat, though
the fast breaks.


Cereal yy pill e fering gl boy kly II lb Geille Le Oyo gly elec gl


Vomiting intentionally, even if it is less than a mouthful nullifies the fast without
obligating the performance of expiation and this is the most evident view. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whomever intentionally
vomits must make up the day]." Though Imam Abu Yusuf held that in order for
the fast to be nullified, the person must deliberately vomit a mouthful and this is
the most correct opinion[which means, if a person intentionally vomits less than a
mouthful, the fast remains sound according to Abu Yusuf with no expiation
necessary because he says that a small amount of vomit is as though there was
nothing to begin with and he used as a proof, that the small amount of vomit does
not nullify wudu].


da yaad SI gry ill o Le OS y ٦ ll ope ٤٦٣٣ L olel sl


" Abu Dawud ٢٣٧٤.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٥١


Likewise, if a person intentionally returns a mouthful of vomit back inside(the
stomach)after it had forcefully risen, and he remembers he is fasting, then he is not
liable for expiation while the fast is void, whereas if he had forgotten, the fast
would remain valid, because it is like a person who eats out of forgetfulness.


Raed! ib Sy SLT Ge Le_ jst of


Expiation is not imposed if a person eats the food that is stuck between his teeth
the size of a chickpea. Though the fast breaks because it is possible to avoid eating
something this size as opposed to a sesame.


Me ope acs SUE! BS LG IST Lt Lle p pall cyl


If a person intended to form his intention of fasting in the day, but he eats
forgetfully before making his intention in the day, then he is not liable for
expiation, though he is liable to make up the day. This means that a person
absentmindedly ate during the day before observing his intention in the day. If he
first intended and then forgetfully ate, the fast would remain valid.


Note: in the following Arabic text, the words from Maraky al-Falah have been included within
the brackets for clarity, since there is a grammatical term that may not be identified correctly.
This grammatical term is referred to as a "waw 'ataf." Furthermore, al-Hidayah ١٣٨ and al-
Ikhtiyar ١٩٣, clearly maintain the same ruling.


was YT YO pt)GG op ID as ٩)tll ae(Ce el)Sy(Gap gg oD ale gael sl
tej)gee AS og)gm ta ye ٩ ¢ pall be ٢٢ yx gl)ald Ge gl ol bY ad Sm Gille pal
Oy be ela de> YoY lly ٥١٥ ٥ SUI Ob)gt a ee pe lige)yo ol(Lat ٩
JM cay hyd de Nle gh Chadd)WY SUL,(SS ٥p)٠ gad an gh Y(gt ge ed ON)ye
RUIN yc pcre gS iN yl G yet DUS Sly It tes ab Vy cad play YI OV ics geal ele ٤)ermnall
CASI net EE pay cla ne y


If one becomes unconscious(i.e. suffers from fainting), even for the entire month
of Ramadan, then he is given the status of that of a sleeping person and is liable
for the missed days, except the actual day in which one fainted. And if it occurred
at night, then one is to make up for the entire period of fainting except the day
that follows this night." Note; this ruling differs with respect to the insane.


If a person suffers from insanity for part of the month, he is to make up the days.
The basis for this is that there is no hardship in making up days which are less
than a month as distinguished from the person who is insane for the entire
month, and is subjected to hardship through performance.


" Al-Hidayah ١٩٣.


٣٥٢ Book IV: FASTING


If one suffers from insanity for the entire period of Ramadan, he is not liable to
make up the days even(if this person is deemed legally insane, such that)he only
recovers at night(from his insanity)or during the day after the time for intention
has passed, because one cannot fast at night and neither after the noontime when
the time of intention has ended.


In Summary


If one faints(or is unconscious)for part of the month of Ramadan or even the entire period of
Ramadan, he is liable to make up the days. If one is insane for part of the month, he is also
liable to make up the days, though if one suffers insanity for the entire month, he is not liable
to make up the days.


shel LST SLY abe CH oped fai
When It Is Necessary To Refrain From Eating During The Da
ar po ded ce Sep See SoS


١- If a person breaks his fast, it is necessary to abstain from eating for the
remainder of the day. This person is also required to make up the day.


pr ¢ gle tay U gb olntiy ail> Jey


٩. If a woman becomes pure from her menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding
straight after the true dawn, then she must refrain from eating for the remainder
of the day. And she is required to make up the day at a later time. As for one in a
state of menstrual periods or postnatal bleeding, it is forbidden for her to fast,
because fasting whist in this state is forbidden and to imitate something forbidden
is also forbidden, and similarly it is not necessary upon the sick or the traveller to
abstain from food, because they have permission to eat due to their hardship.
However, it is sunna for the one who is permitted to eat, to do so in private, not
openly, otherwise one may be accused.


cpr F VY cLadll gale y ٦ f plball day plul Jb٥y Ab po bey


٣-٤ / If a boy matures after true dawn or a nombeliever accepts Islam after true
dawn, they must abstain from eating for the remainder of the day. And they are
not required to make up the day because prior to dawn, they were not subject to
the commands of Allah regarding fasting. Whilst the persons in point one and
point two are liable for the day.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٥٣
een ey ٠ SY[edgy pial ٠ SS |b rai


What Is Disliked When Fasting and What Is Recommended
slab)° ms L


Disliked Actions When Fasting
There are seven things that are disliked when fasting.
phe Weg G٩٩


١-To taste something with no reason is disliked. If a woman has a harsh husband
who will rebuke her for an increase of salt in the food, then she may taste it. If
however he will not, then it is not permitted. Note; the meaning here, is to taste
without allowing anything to enter the insides.


ST Aan y «phe Wy antes


٢- Chewing something without a reason is disliked. It is however permitted if
there is a need for it, such as chewing a small child's food when feeding. However,
this is provided nothing reaches the inside of the body with the saliva. Equally,
chewing on gum is disliked unless there is a reason. The reason for this dislike is
based on the notion that other people who see this will accuse the person of
breaking fast and it is not lawful for a person to assume a position where he will
be accused. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[He who
believes in Allah and the last day, should not stand in the position of blame]. This
is the case even if one has a reason. If, on the other hand something of it should
enter the body with the saliva, the fast is deemed void.


daly MM alb ٣ gl tl MY nt de led ce ols Sly tilly


٣-٤ / Kissing and caressing while fasting is disliked if one is not sure of himself
about having an orgasm or sexual intercourse as a result of such acts, and this is
the evident view on the matter. If however, one is in control and sure that these
things will not result in an orgasm or intercourse, then it is permitted. If someone
would kiss or caress another with lust and an emission results, the fast will break.
sel a NG ers
٥- Gathering the saliva in the mouth and then swallowing it, is disliked.
Uolatly LadlS ata, ol bly


٦-٧- It is disliked to perform any act which is believed to weaken one from fasting,
such as cupping, acupuncture and blood-letting.


٣٥٤ Book IV: FASTING


pial)oS YL


What Is Not Disliked When Fasting
pilal)° ws Y Lol dn y
There are nine things that are not disliked when fasting;
oo a ally La
Kissing and caressing is not disliked provided one is sure(and in control of
himself)that it will not lead to an orgasm or intercourse. A'ishah((God be pleased
with her))reported that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would
kiss and caress his wives while fasting, and he had more power to control his
desires than any of you." If one discharges through kissing or touching, one must
make up that day, but is not liable for expiation."
~ jet CPs
Rubbing oil or lotion onto the moustache is not disliked during the fast.


JAS,
The application of kohl(eyeliner)is not disliked, because there is no direct link
between the eyes and the brain. The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))applied kohl whilst fasting.'


rind,


Cupping(or acupuncture)is not disliked, provided that one believes he will not
tire from such a thing.


saall,


Blood-letting is not disliked if one believes he will not tire from it. Blood donating
is also of this category as this could have a synergistic incapacitating effect.


UL Vighe gh lbs Obs ly SylS ee ye b ig oT ttt,


There is no dislike to use the stwak at the end of the day; rather, it is sunna just
like it is at the beginning of the day, even if the siwak is moist or wet with water.
The Prophet would use the siwak at the beginning of the day and at the end while
fasting.' And the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[The
siwak is sunna, so perform siwak any time you wish].° Imam Shafi'i on the other
hand said that it is disliked in the evening as it does away with the blessed effects,
which is the smell of the mouth which resembles the blood of the martyr.°


" Bukhari ١٩٢٧, Muslim ١١٠٦.

* Al-Hidayah ٣١٩.

* Ibn Majah ١٦٧٨.

* Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi, Al-Zayla'i, vol ٢, ٤٦٠.

" Mentioned by Imam Suyuty in Jami as-Saga'ir ٢/٥٥٠.
° Al-Hidayah.

