٣٦٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


dls Seal oS OL
That Which Is Disliked In Religious Retreat(I'tikaf)٤٣ poll jLam]oS;
It is disliked to bring items of trade to the magid for the purpose of trade, for one


should not turn the masjid into a marketplace.
BL olS Le sae oS


It is disliked to form a contract for the purposes of trade even though it is
permitted, as one has devoted himself to Allah and should not engage in the
matters of the world.(psu VI ASI y)& ٥ ottiel O}canal ٠٥"s


It is disliked to maintain complete silence if one believes it is an act that will bring
him closer to Allah, though if a person is silent because he has nothing to say, it is
not disliked. Muslims are prevented from remaining silent as an act of worship for
the reason that it was, and is the observance of the Christians and the Jews. Abu
Hurairah narrated from the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))that
the Prophet prohibited continuous fast and the silent fast]." If one observes silence
without believing it to be a pious act, but rather held his tongue from speaking
things of no benefit, then there is no harm. In addition, it is commendable to
recite Quran, to remember Allah through invocations, hadith, knowledge,
learning and the biography of the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace)),
or the biographies of the heroes of Islam and the books of religion. One is to
engage in beneficial discussion and learning.


GIKe VI flay ley iKiall Je pt L
What Is Unlawful In I'tikaf And Its Nullification
aclyry eb gle my


It is forbidden to indulge in sexual intercourse or to kiss and fondle. Allah said[Do not associate with your wives while you are in retreat in the masjid].'


aclyt Sky ao y fas


I'tikaf is nullified if one indulges in sexual intercourse or has an orgasm as a result
of kissing and fondling, and it does not matter if one indulges in these actions on
purpose or forgetfully, or whether he was keen to comply or under duress or
whether it was in the day or night. If an orgasm results, the retreat is nullified.


" Abu Hanifa's Musnad ١/١٩٢.
? Al-Bagarah ١٨٧.

