BOOK V: ZAKAT ٣٩٥


voluntarily." The[sameasure according to the Egyptian scale is two and a third
scoops with a ladle. The ladle is the instrument with a long handle used to scoop


foodstuff.
inci ch eh oats


It is permitted to give sadaqah al-Fitr in cash that is equivalent of either one of the
above.


phil)Ladi ٢٥١ yo lB ally . pail Call ch +١ ob de spall Ol & pglatt Gy


The most evident opinion upon which the fatwa is given, is that paying the
equivalent in cash is best. For what is essential, is that which is most beneficial for


the poor and needy.
pall Give all ad ye
The Recipients Of Sadagah Al-Fitr
ety Sp SES)mgell GG pill Ge! J}pill Bio ai,
The recipients of sadaqah al-Fitr are the same recipients as that of zakat. They are:
O gas a gta belly ٦ Ao ٢٦ O gaball"y ٦ SIU Vy SLANy ASL « of aa


١- The Poor

٢- Destitute and helpless

٣- Those employed by the imam to collect zakat

٤- Those whose hearts have been recently reconciled to the truth(new Muslims).
٥- For the freeing of a slave(who have made an agreement with their master).

٦- Those in debt

٧- Those fighting for Islam


٨- The wayfarer(i.e. the traveller stranded from his hometown).
oY SL oye yee hy toly ee fo Ladd)A person may restrict the total sadaqah to one of these categories, even if all the
other types of recipients are present.


" Al-Hidaya ٣٠٠.


٣٩٦ BOooK V: ZAKAT


Mak pe SAS jy Grad js


Transferring The Sadagah And Zakat To Another City


hy coals yt aby gl Goya sll sii any shall Mae Sitly J gall pled any lS i ii oS
She Banca gh gS ald Lay ٨ al gh ٦ Sa Gl YN « pesalll Adlcall yo il Milica! cals
» aged pa old Gas elunad Vad aii sic ge yyl gle oth gf yee gal

When the zakat has been gathered after the completion of a year and when the
sadaqah al-Fitr which is necessary to pay has been settled, it is disliked to transfer
the wealth(which has been collected)to another city, even if the two cities are not
far apart in that the distance between the two is less than that which one needs to
become a traveller, unless in the other city, there is a relative of the one who paid
zakat or sadaqah, or unless in the other city, there are people who are in greater
need, or there are people who are more righteous(in which case it is not disliked
to transfer zakat or sadaqah to them provided they are eligible), or in the other
city there are people who would be more beneficial for the Muslim nation in that
they would be a cause for teaching others knowledge. In these cases, it is not
disliked to transfer the wealth to them from the zakat or sadaqah.


eth BY bead > PY be ale BY bald be oO SN po Lally


However, the best act is to distribute the zakat and sadaqah to the closest
relatives, followed by the next closest relatives and so on. Thereafter it is
distributed to one's neighbours, then the people of one's area, then to those in the
same profession as he(provided they are poor)and then to the people of that
state.


٣


fe


ELC MAN TS


The Chapter
of Hay &
Umran


AU MAN AAA AA Aaa


٢
=E


SRE Bs


٣٩٨ BooK VI: HAJJ AND UMRAH


Book VI: Hajj and Umrah


CONTENTS:
