BOOK II: PRAYER ١٣٥
it a UBYL, ott
Calling The Adhan And Igama For Missed Prayers
et eee)Ode ٢٩


The one who misses a prayer is to announce the adhan and the igama prior to the
makeup of that prayer, as the Prophet ordered Bilal to do when he and the group
missed the fajr prayer after resting on the way back from Khaybar."


Lad le ٢٨١)Sl yd GORY O٩٢ GUYS ٥٠ Sy cil yl IgV IiSy


Equally, when one has missed a number of prayers, he is to call the adhan for the
first and make the iqama. However, after calling the adhan and iqama for the first
of the missed prayers, it is disliked if a person abandons the iqama in the
remainder of the prayers, though not the adhan, this is provided that the missed
prayers are being performed in the same sitting. Meaning, if one called adhan and
iqama in the first prayer, and then did not call adhan for the rest of the prayers, it
is approved, but if one abandoned the iqama for the rest of the prayers, it is
disliked. Though to conform fully, one should call the adhan and iqama for all of
the prayers as the Prophet performed. When the non-believers kept the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))engaged in the battle of Khandak(Trench)and he missed four prayers as a result, namely the dhuhr, 'asr, maghrib, and 'isha.
He prayed them in order and ordered Bilal(God be pleased with them)to make
adhan and iqama for every prayer."


REST Ctl annnay Le
What The Listener Of The Adhan Should Sa
Si tee Cail Lt)hoy py cite)SW lad G fim y dee Sy eed ed pl eae tL
eal oe ye Beall: ٠٥ ٥hI
If one hears the adhan being announced according to the sunna, in that there are
no mistakes or singing etc, he is to cease his actions and is to utter the same words
as the caller, though when he hears the words, 'come to prayer' and 'come to success,'
he is to say, 'there is no power or strength except with Allah.' And in the adhan at dawn,


after the caller says, 'prayer is better than sleep,' one is to say, you have spoken the truth
and have done good' or 'whatever Allah wills.'


eins Tad y Te Ane dpe OT ESL Say TALI ٥ ye aN odin pag J ydcd De ll Lea gt


" Muwattah of Malik ١/١٤.
? At-Tirmidhi ١٧٩, an-Nasai ٦٦).

