٥٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


٣ — It is sunna to use the siwak(the brushing of the teeth with the stick)at the
beginning of wudu, even if it is with the finger when the siwak is not available.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said((Would it not be a
burden on my nation, ١ would have ordered them to use the siwak at every
prayer))."


٤ Vy UW Lanually


٤ — To rinse the mouth three times is sunna even if the three mouthfuls are from
a single handful of water. One is deemed as having fulfilled the sunna of gargling
thrice, even with these actions. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[When one performs ablution, he should rinse his mouth].'


ob FO GLEN,


٥ — To run water in the nostrils with three separate handfuls of water is sunna.
Meaning, one is to use three new handfuls of water when rinsing the nostrils.


eslall J GL y daeall gL,


٦ — During the rinsing of the mouth and nostrils, it is sunna for one to increase
the depth of rinsing provided he is not fasting; that is, one gargles further down
near the throat when rinsing the mouth and runs water further up the nostrils.


glint -po cle BS US AAD Le,


٧ — It is sunna to pass the fingers through the bottom of a large beard with water
on the palm of the hand. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))observed this when he made wudu(in that)he took a handful of water underneath
his throat and he ran his fingers between his beard. Thereafter, he said[This is
what my Lord has ordered mel. It is said that Abu Yusuf held this as sunna, while
Abu Hanifa held it as permissible."


qe! Jld y


٨ — It is sunna to interlace the fingers on the basis of the Prophet's order. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If you make wudu then
interlace the fingers of your hands and feet].* This is done by passing the fingers
of one hand through the fingers of the other. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[Whoever does not interlace his fingers in water, Allah will
interlace them in Hellfire on the Day of Judgement].°


Saal Etsy


" Muslim ٤٨٧.

? Abu Dawud ١٤٤.

٣ Al-Hidayah١٢.

* At-Tirmidhi, The Book of Purification ٣٩
* Tabarani ٢٢/٦٤.

