BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤٥


If however, one performs the last sitting and then stands up without offering the
finishing salams, he is to return and sit and perform the finishing salams without
repeating the tashahhud." And if one prostrates in the fifth rak'ah, it does not
nullify his obligatory prayer because the J/ast sitting has been performed. It is
however, recommended for this person to add another rak'ah to the extra one so
that the additional two are regarded for him as a voluntary act. This is followed
by prostrations of forgetfulness for delaying the final salams.


SSMU Spell ogee lel gy Of Ulead cde eT Lees a dp gest at GD yg UI de ys


If a person has performed the prostrations of forgetfulness in a two rak'ah
voluntary prayer, he is not to add another two rak'ahs upon them, for the addition(of two rak'ahs)nullifies the prostrations of forgetfulness by falling in the middle
of the prayer. Though if one does so(that is, adds an extra two rak'ahs)then he is
to make the prostrations of forgetfulness again and this is the opted view on the


matter.
cents WEL tpg)tree Of cere ٠ nb a SAT pga ale ye ale gS


If a person on whom the prostrations of forgetfulness are required, offers the
finishing salam and at that point is joined by a follower, it is valid(for the
follower)provided the former person(the imam)performs the prostrations of
forgetfulness. If he does not, then the following is invalid according to Abu
Hanifa and Abu Yusuf, though contrary to Muhammad and Zufar. Note; the
follower is to join his imam in the prostrations of forgetfulness."


Say sh WW ٣٦ Se Le ahaa ale Le fy yg Uden


If one forgets a necessary act in the prayer, the prostrations of forgetfulness are
required to mend the defect. And one is required to perform the prostrations of
forgetfulness, even if he deliberately gives salam intending to cut off the prayer;
provided one does not turn away from the qibla or speak(after having offered the
salam). However, it has been maintained by some scholars that turning away from
the qibla does not affect him provided he does not leave the mosque or speak."
Comments: In the event that the prostrations of forgetfulness become due in
order to remove deficiency, one is required to perform the prostrations, even in
the case where one deliberately gives the finishing salam intending to cut off the
prayer and not return to it, even though one remembers what is required of
himself(ie. the prostrations of forgetfulness). In this case, one's salam is disregarded
and does not move one outside the prayer,' and he must perform the prostration





" Note: if one offers the salam standing, it is valid, though one has left the sunna; for it sunna to
give the salam seated.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٨]. However, Al-Hidayah maintains that one is not to
give the salams standing since he has the ability to sit back down and offer them.

? Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩.

٣ Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٩.

' This is because the mere intention to change what is lawful and legitimate does not invalidate
it; and the offering of the salam with this intent is disregarded while remembering what is
required of oneself. Hence. one is required to perform the prostration of forgetfulness as the

