BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤١


lane orl gt ٥ Lif eee
Intentionally Omitting A Necessary |Wajib| Act
Uguati nd BAvall dole]my ٩٦ gil Lee ٤٥ ٥ OS Oly


If one deliberately omits a wajib element, he has sinned and must repeat the
prayer to mend the defect caused by the deliberate action.


Ph SL Ds aS MS ope Bte ooh gh Oyo peat S٥٢ OW GV: La gg tel Gane Vy
oS.)(ld)ye alas o> Mine ٠ Say « SHuall


However, there are some cases where jurists have said, "One is not to perform the
prostrations of forgetfulness for deliberate omissions, except in three situations"
١- If one intentionally omits the first sitting of tashahhud.


٢- If one deliberately delays the prostration from the first rak'ah to the end of the
prayer.


٣- If one intentionally ponders over anything, for an amount of time it takes to
complete a pillar.


Helo pois
When To Perform The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness
pA Le spell o prey SY pas


It is sunna to perform the prostrations of forgetfulness after the finishing salam of
prayer, though it has been stated that this action is wajib. The basis of the Hanafi
view is the report that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Offered
two prostration of forgetfulness whilst seated after the salam]." In addition are the
words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[For each error are two
prostrations after the salutation].'? Therefore, the Hanafi view holds that it is
sunna to perform the prostrations of forgetfulness after one has offered the salam
of prayer and that it is sufficient to offer them after the first salam to the right
side. Imam Shafi'i on the other hand held that one is to make the prostrations
prior to the final salams due to the report that the Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))[Made the prostrations for error prior to the finishing salams]. It
is recorded by all the six sound compilations. Imam Malik held that prostrations
due to deficiency are made prior to salutation and those due to excess are made
after the salutation.


* Bukhari in the Chapter of Sahu.[Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٤].
* Abu Dawud and Ibn Majah.


٢٤٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER


be FF ٠S PAN JF tee OB ee tees oo Holy HL eH,


It is sufficient to make the prostrations after offering one salam to the right, and
this is the soundest view and that which the majority of scholars maintain. Their
reasons for this view is that it is superior and precautionary because once a person
has offered both finishing salams, he is permitted to speak; hence, it is best to be
offered after the first salam. It is somewhat disliked to offer the prostrations prior
to the finishing salams of prayer.


When The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness Are Excused


The prostrations of forgetfulness are excused when the sun rises right after one has
offered the salams in the dawn prayer. In other words, if one offers the salam of
prayer before the sun rises and then it emerges, the prostrations are excused.
Likewise, the prostrations are excused if one offers the salams prior to the sun
changing colour in the 'asr prayer, thereafter it changes colour.


eA da ell ane Leo > ٥


Additionally, if one offers the finishing salams and then performs any act that
prevents him from continuing the prayer, such as intentionally breaking wudu
after the salam, or laughing and talking, the prostrations of forgetfulness are
excused. In other words, should one intentionally perform an act after the salam, an
act which would prevent one from continuing the prayer, such as speaking, then
the prostrations are excused.


sage DS yells ¢ yall >


The Ruling Of The Follower(Ma'mum)And Latecomer(Masbuq)In Relation To The Prostrations Of Forgetfulness


o gas Y dala squus a gaall a bbs

The forgetfulness or error of the imam makes the prostrations binding upon the
followers, though if the follower is forgetful, the prostrations are neither binding
on the imam nor the follower. The reason is that if the follower does prostrate the
prostrations of forgetfulness by himself, he would be at variance with the imam,
and the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)said, "Do not be at variance
with your Imams," and the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace)said,
"The imam is responsible for you, who lifts off you your forgetfulness and your
recitation."" Another narration states that the Prophet(God bless him and give
him peace)performed the prostrations of forgetfulness and the people performed
the prostrations with him.'


" Abu Dawud, at-Tirmidhi.
* Amda al-Ahkam ٢/٣٦.

