BOOK I: PRAYER ٢٢١


٣- One cannot travel less than three days; that is, less than ٨١km one-way, it must
be at least ٨١km.


aslie I ae j٩lt doy na

A person cannot shorten his prayers if he has not passed the buildings of his area
of residence. Note: Maraky al-Falah states that one is not deemed a traveller when
he resolves to do so and neither when the time of travel arrives or when he
mounts his beast(or sits in his vehicle)yet all the while he remains in his town;
and Allah knows best. The shortening of prayer begins when one passes the
townyard[fina or the buildings of his area of residence. This is due to the saying
of Allah[When you are travelling in the land, there is nothing wrong in your
shortening the prayer]." Verily, in this verse, the shortening of the prayers is
conditional upon travel and one is not travelling until he passes the buildings of
where he lives. There is a narration from Anas in which he said: "I offered four
rak'ahs of dhuhr prayer with the Prophet at Madina and two rak'ahs at Dhul
Hulayfa(shortening the 'asr prayers)."? Thus, the Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))did not shorten prayer until he exited from Madina.


gr aly oY ys ee tally berg)ce I MUS «peat de pie gp DULG gh Lene O١٥(Lh ot antl)٥ gle i
SWS O٤٠ Lob ٣ ' onl


And if the buildings have been passed with the intention of travel, prayer cannot
be shortened if the passer is: i)a boy or ii)a dependant person whom is joined to
his leader who has not made the intention of travel, such as a wife with her
husband,' or a slave with his master or a soldier with his commander. In such
cases, prayer cannot be shortened. Likewise if one intends to travel a distance of
less than three days journey, which is less than ٨١km, they are not permitted to


shorten prayer, because according to the law, a distance which is less than ٨١km is
not regarded as travel.


Ce SG yl as coho POI Qc ys Jo ope dally GUY AS poss
The intention of travelling and residing is taken from the primary source which is
the person who is followed, such as the leader, husband, master, commander etc.
and not the follower, such as a wife, slave or soldier, unless the follower actually
knows the intention of the one they are following, in which case one may intend
for themselves, and this is the soundest view. Note: The journey's destination
must be known. If a wife travelling with her husband or a soldier with his leader
does not know the destination(or intention), they cannot shorten their prayers
because they do not know if they will travel the required distance of ٨١km. If they


know the intentions and destination and the journey meets the conditions, they
may shorten prayer.


" Quran ٣:١٠١.
? Bukhari ١٠٨٩.
> Maraky al-Falah ٢٥٠.


* That is, the husband did not make an intention to travel, so the wife cannot intend travel as
she is dependent on him.

