The Chapter Of Menstrual Periods, Postnatal and Chronic Vaginal Discharge
elt ١ yi
The types of blood
Ablaruly play a> ll ow TF

The types of blood that exit from the female(vagina)are menstrual periods[hayd],
postnatal bleeding[néfas]and chronic vaginal discharge[istihada]. The topic of
menstrual periods is one of the most important issues based on the fact that a vast
amount of rules are derived from it such as divorce, lineage, the permissibility of
intercourse, prayer, fasting, the recitation of Quran, i'tikaf(religious retreat), the
entering of a mosque, tawaf around the ka'bah and maturity. With respect to how
menstrual periods affects divorce is that; divorce is of three types: hasan(proper),
ahsan(more proper)and bid'(innovative). The ahsan form of divorce is that a
man divorces a woman with a single repudiation pronounced during her period of
purity from menstruation during which he has not had intercourse with her. He
then waits until she completes her waiting period('iddah). The hasan form, which
is termed talaq al-Sunna is when a woman whose marriage has been
consummated is divorced with three repudiations pronounced in three periods of
purity(one in each). And ¢alag al-bid'ch(innovation)is when the man divorces her
with three repudiations pronounce in a single period of purity. If one does this,
the divorce takes effect, but one has sinned." It is therefore evident as to why this
subject is of great importance.


" Maraky al-Falah ٨٥.
* Al-Hidayah ١/٢٦٦ | Maraky al-Falah ٨٧.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٥(al
Menstrual Bleeding |Hayd|

PLES atl ily. ALY ge Als dy > Volpe Yl pp aaiz er Lat
٥ tee Sly duh abu gly


Menstrual bleeding is blood that discharges(forcefully)from the uterus of a
female who has attained puberty, who is not ill or pregnant and has not reached
the age of menopause(which is fifty five years old; and the fatwa issued is based
on this view). The minimum days of menstrual periods are three days and three
nights. The average is five days and the maximum is ten days. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[The minimum period for hayd in the case
of a virgin girl or deflowered women is three days and its accompanying nights,
while the maximum is ten days]." This is proof that is contrary to the view of
Imam Shafi'i who fixes it at one day and one night. Also, the red, yellow and dark
coloured fluid that a woman sees during the period of menses is menstruation,
until she sees pure white." A'ishah(God be pleased with her)deemed whatever
was other than pure white as menses.' Hence, when a woman sees blood for less
than three days after which it discontinues and sees pure white after that, then it
is deemed as chronic discharge[istihada]according to the Hanafi school; while
blood less than one day and one night is deemed as chronic discharge according
to Shafi'.


Supplementary notes from Ibn Abidin"s Hashia


According to the Sacred law, when a person attains puberty, he/she is said to have
matured[baligh]. No girl becomes mature prior to the age of nine years. Note: only
lunar months and years are taken into consideration in Islamic matters. A girl is
said to be mature is she experiences menstruation after the age of nine; or when
she sexually enjoys intercourse in her dream and seminal fluid is discharged; or
she has no menstruation, but becomes pregnant. As for the girl under the age of nine,
if she sees blood, then it is regarded as chronic vaginal discharge[istéhada]; and
this is the strongest view. The same applies to the menopausal woman according
to the evident view in the Madhhab.


The pillar of menstruation is the emergence of blood from the uterus; that is, the
appearance of blood to the immediate part outside the vagina. If the blood
remains in the inner part of the vagina, then it is not deemed menses; and this is
the most evident view upon which the legal ruling[fatwa]coincides with according
-o Quhustani. However, Muhammad held that it is based on the woman feeling it.


Darqutani, al-Zayla'i, vol ١, ١٩١.
_ Al-Hidayah ٦٠.
Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ١٩٣.


٩٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION[It states in Sharh al-Wagayya:| It is recommended for a virgin to use cotton wool,
Sanitary pads or a piece of old clothing during her menses to cover her private
part and for a non-virgin — it is recommended all the time. It is disliked to place
something in the internal area of the private part(as is done with tampons).


The least time for menstrual periods is three days and their nights(the nights have
been added in this text to clarify the extent of time in hours, which is seventy two astronomical
hours). Verily, it is not conditional for the blood to continue throughout this time in
a manner where there is no stoppage for an hour, because this is rare. Indeed, the
discontinuation for an hour or two or more does not invalidate it. And the
maximum time for menstruation is ten days and their nights(or ٢٤٠ hours).


That which is short of the minimum duration(of three days or seventy two hours)even by a
small margin of time is regarded as chronic vaginal bleeding |istthada| and not menstruation.
Al-Quhustani said: "If the woman experiencing menses for the first time sees
blood when half the plate of the sun has risen and its stops on the fourth day
when one quarter has risen, then it is deemed istihada(because it has fallen short of
the minimum duration of seventy two hours), though if half the plate of the sun has
risen, then it will be regarded as menstrual periods. And with respect to the
woman with her regular days, such as five for example; if she sees blood when half
the sun has risen from the horizon and it stops on the eleventh day when one
third has risen, then the surplus above five is deemed chronic vaginal discharge[tstthada], because it increased upon the tenth day with the amount of one sixth."!


The characteristic of menstrual blood — The jurists agree that its colour is red but
Closer to being black, and that it has a foul smell. As for the colours of yellow,
muddy and green during the time of menses, the preferred view according the
Majority of Hanafi, Shafi'i, Maliki and Hanbali scholars is that it is judged as
menstrual blood. And they relied upon the hadith of A'ishah that is recorded in
the Muwatta of Imam Malik:[Woman used to send little boxes to A'ishah with a
Piece of cotton cloth in each one on which was yellowness from menstrual blood,
asking her about prayer. She said to them: "Do not be hasty until you see a white
discharge." By this she meant purity from menses."


ols!
Postnatal Bleeding | Nifas


Postnatal bleeding(nifas)is blood that discharges after giving birth. The
maximum days of postnatal bleeding is forty days. There is no fixed limit on the
minimum period which means the bleeding may stop at any time before the forty
days. Anas(God be pleased with him)is reported to have said that Allah's


" That is, she noticed blood when half the sun had risen and it stopped after the tenth day
when one third had risen. The difference between half and one third is one sixth.
* Muwatta of Imam Malik ٩٩.[Radd al-Muhtar vol. ١/٤٧٤]BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٧


Messenger((God bless him and grant him peace))had prescribed forty days for
women in the state of nifas, except if she is purified before this." Therefore, if a
woman gives birth and sees blood in excess of forty days according to Abu Hanifa
and six days according to Shafi'i, then the excess is deemed as chronic vaginal
discharge[istthada].


soln Vil
Chronic Vaginal Discharge{Istihada}pla dnd dey pad Gite fo alj sl Pll OU we ati po aL YI,


Istihada is the discharge of blood that stops in less than three days or blood in
excess of ten days of menstrual bleeding. Equally, the excess of blood after forty
days of postnatal bleeding is regarded as Istihada(chronic vaginal discharge).
Hence, if a woman begins to bleed and it ceases in less than three days, it is not
menstrual bleeding, it is chronic vaginal discharge[istihada]. Also, the maximum
amount of days for a menstrual period is ten days; the blood after ten days is
regarded as chronic vaginal bleeding. This also applies to the excess of blood after
forty days of postnatal bleeding.


In addition, if a woman with regular days bleeds beyond her regular days of
menses and postnatal bleeding and the blood persists until it breaches the
maximum duration for menses and postnatal bleeding, then it is deemed chronic
vaginal bleeding[istihada]. Equally, the female that sees blood prior to the age of
nine as well as the pregnant woman is considered chronic discharge.


Moreover, if a woman who has a known routine bleeds beyond her regular days of
menses and they are seven for example, then there are two situations that may
occur: ١)if the regular days change during the days of her menses, such as the
menses becoming-nine or ten days, then it is regarded as menses and her regular
days are considered changed. Indeed, it is established that the regular days of a
woman become established even after the one time of menses. Hence, her regular
days are that which she sees last, which may increase or decrease; so she is to fall
back on her last period. The same applies to postnatal bleeding in that a woman's
regular days may be twenty for example; then during the days of bleeding, it
changes to thirty or thirty five. ٢)If the bleeding exceeds ten days and she has a
known habit that is less than ten days(such as seven for example), then she is rely
on her normal course(i.e. seven)and whatever exceeds this is regarded as chronic


vaginal discharge[istihada]."


Nee EE


" Tbn Majah ٦٤٩.
? Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٤٤.

