BOOK II: PRAYER ١٤٥


If a person only has enough to cover one of these parts, some scholars maintain
that he is to cover the anus, because it is obscene in the situation of bowing and
prostration, whereas other scholars held, he must cover the genitals because he is
facing the qibla with the frontal area.


eee oprtly ٦٩٥ SL oh eleVE GU Leo Ob Aa yo abe y lobe LVL Sle gil ie ais


It is recommended that the prayer of a naked person be offered whilst seated by
way of indication(nodding)and stretching the legs out towards the qibla in an
effort to cover oneself. If however, one prays standing indicating with his head(ie. nodding)or he opts to bow and prostrate normally, then both are valid,
though the first option of praying seated is best.


leery Vici ye stow amy ce rpadly aS ade wy ٥٩ AS I cgay ٨ all le be Nay sey
Lert y nad y


The private area of a man is that which is between his naval to the end of the
knees. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The private area[awrah]of a male is the area between the naval to the knees]." The private area of
a slave includes more than that of a man, namely(the addition of)her stomach
and back, and for the free woman — her whole body is a private area except her
face, hands and feet; meaning the palms and back of the hands and the top of the
feet and underneath is permitted to uncover.


Beall dvs pier by pl Lael oo pee wy ats


If one quarter of any limb from the private area[azerah]is exposed, it prevents the
validity of prayer. Note: the knees are part of the thighs and the ankle of a woman
is part of her shins. The woman's ear is regarded as separate from her head and so
are her breasts. Likewise, a man's penis is deemed a limb as well as his scrotum;
all are regarded as individual limbs. The area between the navel and the pubic
bone is also one limb. For example: if one quarter of a person's thigh is exposed,
then prayer is not correct because the thigh is a limb from the private area.


WEY y ٦ ae ES Lac ol ay ply bai Le Ube OS yy yl op elael Je GES GS sy


If there are a few separate portions exposed in various places of the private area
and the sum total of these exposed places equals one quarter of the smallest limb
which is uncovered, prayer is deemed invalid. For example: if part of the thigh,
scrotum and lower stomach area each uncovered a small portion and the total of
this amounts to one quarter of the smallest of these parts, in this case the scrotum,


then prayer is not valid. If it does not equal one quarter, then the prayer remains
sound.


" Al-Baihaqi, ١/٢٢٢ / Al-Zayla'i, ١/١٢٣.

