٥٦ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


+ ٢ gl Lal G Lai
Categories Of Wudu
plLudl OU Le + ٢ sll
Wudu is divided into three types
Al shy OL wl Ly oy HSI Sto BLL ia)y MG CIS gh y SH Stall be oo ٥: Uy


The first type is that which is obligatory upon one in a state of minor impurity
who wishes to pray even if the prayer is a voluntary one, or is a funeral prayer, for
indeed it is still a prayer even though it is not a complete one. It is obligatory for
the prostration of recital and for one who wishes to touch the Quran, even if it is
only one verse that is written on a paper, dirham or wall as Allah said in the
Quran[None shall touch it except those who are clean]."


The second type is that which is wajib for the tawaf of the ka'bah as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[The tawaf around the ka'bah is like
prayer except that you may speak, and whoever speaks should not speak unless it
is good].'

aghe ds glial yo are dard! yo ole be oo ytee SIU,


The third type is that which is recommended on different occasions, namely;
when one wishes to sleep in a state of purification, or when one awakens from
sleep or so one can continuously be in a state of wudu. Other occasions include, to
touch the books of Islamic law, not the books on the interpretation of the Quran.


troll Jeo pe sll


It is recommended for one in a state of wudu to refresh his wudu with the
intention of attaining rewards and closeness to God and provided that when one
makes wudu for the second time, it is performed in a different place. The reason
being is that performing wudu upon wudu from the same place is disliked if acts
of worship are not performed between them, for this is deemed as wastage.


dare y IS y Mf Sey


It is recommended after back biting, lying and after slander, which is to carry
tales spreading corruption upon the earth.


potaltily tbs JS,


" Al-Wagi'a, ٧٩.
٢ At-Tirmidhi, the Book of Purification ٩٦٠.


BOOK I: PURIFICATION $٧
t is recommended after every mistake including the i

vudu expiates small sins. The Prophet((God bless him a Sak
There is not a person who committed sin and then performed[wudu]and
hereafter observed prayer seeking Allah's forgiveness except that Allah forgives
١im], then the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))recited the ae
And those who, having done an act of indecency or wronged their own souls
-emember Allah and ask for forgiveness for their sins}."


Teall cle yagiy[t is recommended after laughing loudly outside of prayer. The reason this is the
case is because to laugh loudly in prayer nullifies the wudu and prayer; hence


when it is done outside of prayer, it portrays a resemblance and is therefore
desirable to make wudu.


alms Ley


It is recommended after washing a dead person or after carrying him. The


Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Whoever washed a deceased
he should observe ghusl, and whoever carried him should perform wudu}.'


He cis;


It is recommended to make wudu for the time of every prayer whether one is in a
state of purification or not. Anas((God be pleased with him))reported that the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))performed wudu for every prayer
whether he was pure or not." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him sea)also said[For a man who performs ablution in a state of ablution. ten a
deeds will be recorded(in his favour)}.* ;


atl Joe ٥,


It is recommended prior to the major bath(ghusl). Aishah(Allah be pleased with
her))reported that[If the Prophet performed the major bath from junub, he began


by washing his hands, before placing his hands in the container. then he observed
wudu, like the wudu for prayer].° :


erst pty jl cc Onl,
It is recommended when a person in a state of mjor ritual impurity desires to


eat, repeat sexual intercourse or sleep. A'ishah(Allah be pleased with her))reported((If the Prophet was in a state of janaba and wanted to eat or sleep, he





" Al-Imran ١٣٥.

٢ Abu Dawud; The Book of Funerals ٣١٦١.
٣ At-Tirmidhi ٥٨[Maraky al-Falah ٥١].

' Abu Dawud ٦٢.

> Muslim ٣١٦.

