٣٨٨ BOOK V: ZAKAT


Abu Yusuf and Imam Muhammad held that there is no zakat on that which grows
from the earth except when two conditions are satisfied; a)that the nature of the
produce is such that it can remain stored for a year(i.e. non perishable), and: b)that the harvest reach the level of nisab(minimum amount). The nisab for harvest
that can be weighed is five awsug(which is approximately ٩٦٠ kg). Whereas if the
harvest cannot be weighed, then the nisab is the value of five awsug. Note: one
wasq is equal to sixty sas by the standard of the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace)).


Imam Muhammad(the student of Abu Hanifa)held that there is no zakat on soft
tender greens(i.e. every plant which man nourishes himself)which include annual
herbs, vegetables and juicy fruits[rutab]" which have no enduring fruit,'(ie. it
cannot last a year without a great deal of treatment)such as water melon and
cucumbers. On whatever there is of wheat, barley, dried dates, raisins and their
like, there is no zakat until they amount to five wasags and a wasaq is sixty sa'(which is approximately ٩٦٠kg).'


WIS SOV > br Vy


And it is not a stipulation for a lunar year to pass before paying the zakat upon
one's harvest as is agreed upon, for the reason that Allah stated[.eat of their fruit
in their season, but render the dues that are proper on the day when the harvest is
gathered]. Hence, it is not conditional for a complete year to pass before paying
the zakat on one's harvest.


PSN ٥ CIS Ly ٦ AN ged SL gd ol Mele plat st ٢٥ OS OF SISIy Gs. ٥٣١ Ot fe lyasil
CIE om op pall nai etd S ٣ sl Ase gl LY gu plal


Scholars agreed that if the crops and fruits are grown from rain water for the
majority of the year, the rate of zakat is one tenth(or ١٠%)and if, for the majority
of the year, they are grown from irrigated water, then the zakat is half a tenth(or
٥%)on the total harvest.


" Rutab refers to what cannot be stored and does not endure, such as a sweet fruit.

* The definition of enduring is that it should last for a year in the main without a great deal of
treatment, such as wheat and barley.

* 'The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is no zakat on anything less
than five wasgs}, but according to Abu Hanifa because of the Prophet's saying[That which the
earth produces has a due on it a tenth], without distinction.[Kitab al-Athar ١٧٤].

* Al-An'am ١٤١.

