BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٤٣


SW Y Laat de ts(CdS greed lee oye Gee be Lad ga gh al]a Syd deny


The latecomer to the group prayer must perform the prostrations with his imam(because he is joined to him)after which he is to rise to make up what he missed
from the prayer.' If the latecomer then makes an error(i.e. he forgets)while he is
making up the actions he missed, he will have to perform prostrations for that
error as well. Though not the one who was with the imam at the start. For
example; person X begins the prayer with the imam, but then falls asleep in the
prayer. When he wakes, he is required to make up what he lost. However, if he
forgets something when making up what he lost, it is compensated for by the
imam without the need of forgetful prostrations on the basis that he began with
the imam whereas the one who arrived late to the prayer and missed a portion of
the prayer with the imam, is required to prostrate for his own forgetfulness,
should he commit one when making up the actions he missed.


ti
Branches


Ctl dS stoSlo pe PLY GLY,


The imam is not to perform the prostrations of forgetfulness in the Friday prayer,
nor for both Eid prayers in order to repel the discord due to the large number of
people.


GAA(Upen ١٣١)٩ ٦ reo gary Sally JI ale BIS gg DL at ake oll ys Ugo pall ot Le ory[sl paw! gy JelS(Sos)One who forgets to perform the first sitting in an obligatory prayer is to return and
sit, provided he does not completely stand, and this is according to the evident
report which is the correct one. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[When an imam stands up at the end of two rak"ahs, if he remembers
before standing straight up, he should sit down, but if he stands straight up, he
should not sit down, but perform the two prostrations of forgetfulness]." And if a
follower(behind the imam)forgets to sit, then his case is like one who offers a
voluntary prayer, he is to return and sit even if he was completely standing,
because he is a follower.


«OY Sale ٢ gree VG ilo glad LI OLS fy yg tone ol past If yay ale ff
Are Lad ٣ cereal alist[SB pel Le ae ole Oly


" Note: before the latecomer rises to make up what he has missed, he should wait until he
knows that the imam is not going to perform prostrations of forgetfulness; though one may
rise after reading the tashahhud when he fears the period of wiping the footgear will
expire, or the time of the Friday prayer will expire, in which cases one does not have to
wait for the imam to give salam.(Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٦)? Abu Dawud ١٠٣١.

