BOOK II: PRAYER ١٨٧


If a latecomer joins the imam in the prostrations of forgetfulness after he had
already risen to make up the actions he missed, his prayer is void. For example:
the imam offers one of the final salams after which the latecomer rises. The imam
then remembers that prostrations of forgetfulness were required of him, so he
prostrates. If the follower now joins the imam after already rising, his prayer is
deemed invalid, because he disengaged from the imam.


or tl day La SS Se Bare ool tay pI» gl tl dale]pte y
If, after the last sitting(just before the final salams)one remembers he omitted a


prostration of the prayer, and as a result performs it, then the failure to repeat the
last sitting again nullifies his prayer.[Bb tal ٢٥ sale}pte


Failure to repeat a pillar after previously performing it while asleep invalidates


the prayer, because it is a condition to perform the actions in a conscious state.
Sgncll ole]Agigi"s


A loud burst of laughter by the imam(deliberate or not)nullifies the prayer even
for the one who arrived late to the prayer, for the prayer of the imam is connected
with those behind him.


DO op Dl te tall Cae y


Intentionally breaking wudu after reciting the tashahhud in the last sitting
invalidates the prayer. This means that if one intentionally breaks wudu after
adopting the last sitting for the equivalent time of tashahhud, then his prayer is
void according to Abu Hanifa because a section of the prayer has been ruined.
The two jurists held that it is valid.


ONS she ele! ay cel Cel gh aaa Lal sl ste cl Gb stl pe GAS)ols de pW,
EAS)٩ sil chad HVE Spe C٣


Giving the final salams of prayer after two rak'ahs believing oneself to be a
traveller or believing it to be the Friday prayer or tarawih, wherein reality, it is the
isha prayer, which is four rak'ahs, nullifies the prayer. This is also the case, if one
is new to Islam or emerges as an ignorant Muslim, and believes the obligatory
prayer is two rak'ahs when it is not, prayer is null and void because he has
intentionally given the final salams in a manner of ending the prayer before its
time.


°,
%

ee
fo

