BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٧٥


CPW y GB pdly Gp SHI OL


The Prayer Of The Solar And Lunar Eclipse And The Fear Prayer


The term kusuf refers to a solar eclipse whilst the term khusuf refers to a lunar eclipse. Also, the
meaning of the term Sear' in the fear prayer refers to that which brings about dread in a
person, such as an earthquake, strong wind or darkness in the daytime.


fee Shae Vy ge Vy LUV ١ST DUALS jyols gl dl ploy ٥ SU fal dys Ola ٢
inal Ball: solu


It is sunna to pray two rak'ahs when the sw is eclipsed," in the same manner that
one performs voluntary prayer. The imam of the Friday prayer or the sultan's
deputy is to lead the prayer. Jf not, no group prayer is to be observed.' The prayer is
offered without adhan or iqama and without audible recitation of Quran, and no
sermon is delivered, but rather one calls "The prayer is gathering." Qabisah al-
Hilaali reported that there was an eclipse of the sun in the time of the Prophet(God bless him and give him peace). He came out bewildered pulling his garment,
and I was in his company at Madina. He prayed two rak'ahs and stood for a long
time in them. He then departed and the sun became bright. He then said, "There
are signs by means of which Allah, the Exalted, produces dread in his servants.
When you see anything of this nature, pray as though you are praying a fresh
obligatory prayer."


leo plas =» s
It is sunna to lengthen the prayer, such as to read surah al-Baqarah.
cee ay UU fe BU]obs of all fies Like PLY ye ol A prey(٤٨ ٩٥)be play


It is sunna to lengthen the duration of bowing and prostration in both rak'ahs,
after which the imam is to supplicate to Allah while sitting and facing the qibla,
or if he wishes, he may supplicate standing facing the people, and this is superior.
One should not be upon the pulpit supplicating to Allah. The people are to say,
"Amin" to the supplication and this is to be maintained until the sun brightens or
appears. Abu Dawud reported that he Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))stepped forward for a long time as much as he could do so in the prayer.
But we did not hear his voice. He then performed a bow and prolonged it as much
as he could do in the prayer. But we did not hear his voice. He then prostrated
himself with us and prolonged it which he never did in prayer before. But we did


" That is, for a solar eclipse[Ausu/].

? The reason the prayer is to be conducted by the imam of the Friday prayer is to prevent
dispute which may arise between the people.

* Abu Dawud ١١٨١.


٢٧٦ BOOK I!: PRAYER


not hear his voice. He then did similarly in the second rak'ah. Then he uttered the
salutation, he stood up, praised Allah and Exalted Him, and testified that there is
no god but Allah and testified that he is His servant and Apostle." This tradition
indicates that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))recited the Quran
quietly in the prayer of the eclipse. This is the view of Abu Hanifa and Shafi'.
Although there is another tradition narrated by A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))which shows that he recited Quran audibly. This tradition has been
transmitted by Bukhari. The view that the Quran should be recited loudly is held
by Imam Ahmad and Ibn Khuzayma. Imam An-Nawawi stated that Shaft, Malik,
Abu Hanifa and the majority of the jurists hold that one should recite Quran quietly at the
solar eclipse and loudly at the lunar eclipse."


Wap DIS sol alylo pL at Joly
If the imam is not present amongst the people, they are to offer the prayer
individually just as the prayer of the lunar eclipse(Khusuf)is prayed individually.


Verily, there is no congregation when the moon is eclipsed(i.e. lunar eclipse).(٥٦h pally SY SL)& jis Gly Hh OlS AS)saat Telly c Lobe AGU Aaddall(٥٠ ٣ aallS)»


Other prayers which are offered individually are the prayer of terrifying darkness
in the day, the prayer due to strong wind, whether it is during the day or at night,
and the prayer of peril, which is fear or threat, such as from an earthquake or
lightning, or rain or sickness and the like.


" Hakim Mustadrak, ١/٤٨١(Maraky al-Falah ٣١٣].
Awn, Al-Ma'bad |/ ٤٦٠.

