BOOK II: PRAYER ١٤١





Also from the conditions that validate prostration is: one must place the hands
and knees on the ground according to the most correct view. Note, the author
clarified this point saying that the minimum requirement for the validity of
prostration is the placement of one hand and one of the knees on the ground.

Though this is not the perfect manner of how it is performed. Additionally, part
of the toes of the feet must be placed on the ground during prostration, and it is
not sufficient to place the top part of the foot on the ground during prostration.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[I have been ordered to
prostrate on seven bones, i.e. on the forehead and the Prophet pointed towards his
nose, hands, knees and the toes of both feet]."


dy eg ٩٥ Melis


Bowing must precede prostration. This is conditional for the validity of prayer
just like recitation is to precede bowing.


TeV fe > alll oF Mo pret oe Gb ds


It is conditional to rise from prostration to a position close to sitting according to
the correct view from Abu Hanifa who held, that one who is near or close to the
position of sitting is regarded as sitting.


pt So yall


To return and perform the second prostration is obligatory. The second


prostration is obligatory like the first prostration according to scholars of AAl as-
Sunna wal-Jama'a.


Spe ٥ V٣ gaily


It is obligatory to perform the last sitting for the time equivalent to reading the
tashahhud according to the consensus of the scholars due to the hadith of Ibn
Mas'ud when he taught the tashahhud to others saying[If you said this |i.e. the
tashahhud]or performed this, then you have completed prayer, if you desire to
rise, then rise and if you desire to remain sitting, then sit].°


ISM eo ely


To delay the last sitting until one has completed all the pillars of prayer is
conditional for the prayer's validity. Consider the following: if the one praying
recites the last tashahhud and then remembers the omission of a prostration in
one of the rak'ahs, then he is to perform it and must then repeat the last sitting
again because the prostration which was neglected is an original pillar of prayer.





" Maraky alFalah ١٣١.
? Bukhari ٨١٢.


٣ Abu Dawud ٩٦٥.

