BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩٥


It is disliked for the imam to stand alone in the mihrab(prayer-niche)or to stand
alone on a raised platform or higher ground, the reason being that it resembles
the Jews and Christians in that their leader is specified in a special place by
himself. Ibn Mas'ud((God be pleased with him))said[The Prophet forbade the
imam from elevating himself upon something, and the people are following]."


ie Ji ine wile lil


In a congregational prayer, if there is room in a row in front, then to stand behind
it, is disliked. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Allah and
His Angels invoke blessings on those who arrange the rows(in prayer)in a
compact form and he who fills some space in the rows, Allah elevates him a
degree on that account.'


IN ٥ pre ٠٩S NV ٣)po Shing shaw oy shaile gl ol GOK dy pla ios it,
٠٢٣٦٣ sl pl Iie pat
To wear clothes that have pictures of living things are disliked to offer prayer in.
This is also the case if there are pictures suspended above or behind one's head,
or between one's hands on the floor. Likewise being near a picture during prayer
is disliked, except if it is tiny, such as a dirham which gives resemblance of a king


or the head of the picture is missing, for nothing can be worshipped without a
head, or the picture resembles objects without a soul, such as an ocean.


PAPO sh ٥٩٥ oe Dy OK Oly


To pray while there is a hot pot or brazier containing coal right in front of the
person praying is disliked because it resembles those who worship fire.


clips ol
To pray directly in front of a group of people who are sleeping is disapproved for


fear of laughing or making eye contact that would cause one to be shy or lose
concentration. If however this was not the case, then there is no dislike. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))narrated that[The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))used to offer prayer while I used to sleep across in his bed in front of
him, and then, when he wanted to pray witr, he would wake me up and I would
pray witr]."
Beall SHH So pas Vly oe Agel ey

To wipe away dirt from the forehead that will not affect one during the prayer, is
disliked because it is a form of fidgeting when there is no reason to do so. This is


also the case with wiping away sweat. If however, these things will cause harm,
then there is no objection.


" Ibn Hajar, Takhlis al-Habir ٢/٤٣.
? Ibn Majah ٩٩٥.
٣ Bukhari ٥١٢.

