٨٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


he is to wipe the outward part of his right arm with the inside of his four fingers of
his left hand(ie. deft hand for right arm)from the tips of his fingers up to the elbow.
He is then to use his left palm without the fingers and wipe the inner part of his
right arm(from the elbow)up to the wrists. He is then to pass the inner part of his
left thumb over the outward part of his right thumb. He is then to repeat this


action for his left arm."
pol ob


When To Delay Tayammum
SM oF foe en ob peal eb Ow,
It is recommended to delay tayammum when one expects(according to his


predominant view that)he will attain water before the end of the prayer time.
There is narration from Abu Hanifa and Abu Yusuf that in this situation, one is


required to delay tayammum.
eLadlk Jy cbse JL obs,


If one has been promised water, it wajib to delay tayammum, even if one fears
that he will miss the prayer from its time. This is agreed upon in the Madhhab,
provided the water is available and close by. If however, the water is not present
with the person who promised it, or it is one mile away or more, then delaying
tayammum is not required.


Lad Gt dled hol te Sh big,


Provided there is no fear of missing the prayer from its time, it is necessary to
delay the prayer when a person has been promised clothes to cover his nakedness
or a water skin or rope to withdraw water. Though if one fears he will miss the
prayer, then he is to perform tayammum and pray, whereas the two companions
said even if he fears he will miss the prayer, he must still wait, just like the one
who has been promised water is to delay.'

UI Lb


Requesting Water
WEYL pe ae ٥ gb of ٨ phe Slay | jade Sl Ul bos,


It is wajib to seek water the distance of ٤٠٠ steps if one believes it is near-by,
provided it is safe to do so. If not, then he need not search. Note: if one believes
water is close by based on evidence such as the presence of a bird, fruit or
information received, then he is required to seek water the distance of ٣٠٠-٤٠٠
steps in the direction he believes the water to be; and it is not permitted for him to
perform tayammum unless he has searched for water. If on the other hand he
does not believe water is near-by, then he is under no obligation.'


" ALFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٢ | Al-Badai" vol.١, ٤٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٧٧.
* Al-Hidaya ٥٠

