١٤٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


ULM Sheed b ty sles L
That Which Is Related To The Condition Of Facing The Qibla
sacl ٩ ٥ ٥ dg ached Lyte GE gl ale ٥٦ Jy pl ye jane ol op LL JL ٦ pee ope


Whoever is unable to face the direction of prayer(gibla]due to illness or is unable
to dismount from his animal due to old age or other factors, or because he fears
an enemy, or a predatory animal, then the direction of prayer for him is the
direction he is able to face and which is safe for him.


See fj athade ole fy Ward J ae dole Vy is FMS Vy pe ote SK dy Ua ale ett oy


٢٩ awl

If one does not know the direction of prayer and there is no one to inform him
about it, nor is there a prayer niche[mihrab], then one must investigate using
personal reasoning and other evidences. If he later learns that he was incorrect, he
is not required to repeat the prayer. Amir b. Rabia(God be pleased with him)stated that(We were in the company of Allah's Messenger in a journey. The sky
became cloudy and it became difficult for us to determine the direction of prayer.
As we finished the prayer, we came to know the direction of prayer. When the sun
rose, we mentioned it to the Holy Prophet upon which Allah revealed(Where so
ever you turn, there is Allah's countenance)|." Although if one realises his error
during the prayer, he must turn to the correct direction and continue the prayer.
Abdullah Ibn Umar(God be pleased with him)reported[While the people were
offering the dawn prayer at Quba someone came to them and said: It has been
revealed to the Prophet tonight, and he has been ordered to offer prayer facing
the ka'bah. So turn your faces to the ka'bah. The people that were facing Sham{Jerusalem}turned their faces towards the ka'bah];' and the Prophet((God bless
him and grant him peace))did not order them to repeat prayer.

Wel cool phe d JS Ad Uys ybel ple Oly. cme shel al atti ay la Fe SOL
If a person begins his prayer with no investigation and after the completion of
prayer discovers that he was correct, the prayer is valid, and if he finds out during
the prayer that he is facing the correct direction, the prayer is nullified, because
the person began the prayer with no investigation, and because the situation has
been strengthened with this confirmation received while praying, and one cannot
continue something in a strong mode after its weak commencement. Imam
Muhammad and Imam Zufar held that this person had left out the compulsory
action prior to prayer, that being the investigation, or personal reasoning. The
same applies to one who begins the prayer with no investigation and does not
discover at all whether he faced the correct direction. His prayer is nullified
because he omitted the investigation. Hence, if one learns in the prayer or does
not find out at all, then both encounter the same ruling if they commence the
prayer with no investigation.


" Quran: ٢-١١٥. Ibn Majah ١٠٢٠.
? Bukhari ٤٠٣

