BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٥٣


rs all at ds


A verse of prostration that is recited in the prayer must be carried out in the
prayer. If not, then it cannot be made up after the prayer. Additionally, one must
repent for intentionally leaving it.


Bly MAU J bdoly ais Vl trey LOLs ٦ gel te Up ted aed Tall cE WH Sy


If a person recites a prostration verse outside of prayer and then prostrates, and
then enters prayer and recites it once more, then he is to prostrate again, though
if he did not prostrate for the first one, then the prostration in the prayer suffices
for the two according to the most evident view on the matter. In other words, the
one performed in the prayer suffices for the two on the basis of its strength. Note:
this rule applies on the condition that one recites both verses in the same sitting;
for if one changes his sitting between the two recitations, then two prostrations are
due. Equally, if one performs the prostration of recital in the prayer, and then
recites it after the salam of prayer, then he is to prostrate once more on the basis
that the one performed in the prayer has legally ended; this is according to the
most evident view on the matter."


ele Yo ly le GLO S ٣S


This is also the case for a person who repeats a prostration verse in the same
sitting, in that one prostration suffices for the repetition." Though this does not
apply for two different sittings;[this means that if one recites the prostration verse
in two separate sittings, then the performance of one prostration is not sufficient,
since there are two places where the duty of prostration must be fulfilled].


uel! «@ Jie b ob


When Is A Sitting Replaced
Lane gly ae SUL lel Judy


A sitting is replaced with another when one simply moves away from the first area
to a distance of three steps. This is also achieved by tasd#yya, which is the manual
process of making carpets or material. Such a person takes material or fibres and
places it through posts fixed to a wall or floor and goes back and forth with such
fibres. Indeed, such movements exchange the first sitting. With respect to the first
point of moving away the distant of three steps, this is when one is on open land,
desert, or a road.'


ee DS Ge al ge Be ss pat dt pat op SEL,





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.
٢ That is, one prostration suffices for a person who recites a verse of prostration twice in the
same sitting. Note: the word sitting is the translated word of majlis. It is described as an area
that one may occupy for a duration of time and then depart from. For example; one's first
sitting was the swimming pool, though after exiting the pool, one's sitting is altered or replaced.
* Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٠.

