٣٤٤ BOOK IV: FASTING


ob He Wey Dabs ٩٣.٠ SK OT ٣٥)y٠))(Ugh y Ne)A Se(be ٩)ce gle oo Jo ٣ USN UZ,
٥ USS Cam y le]y ٦ ol S]Updo as ob ne ye Se gles gay ٠ So gry galt yc Olan le Garry)((¢ gual Li}Ske US OY ye


Expiation(kaffarah)is wajib upon a female who willingly complied to have sexual
intercourse with her husband who was forced to have intercourse with her.
Consider the following: an oppressive king forces a man to commit sexual
intercourse with his wife during the day in Ramadan and whilst he is forced, she
willingly complies without being forced. Thus, the expiation becomes necessary
upon her due to the serious crime of compliance and facilitation. Indeed she
actualised the crime from her side in facilitating and allowing her husband to
perform these actions. Another scenario is, if a woman knows that the dawn time
has arrived and yet she allows her husband to have intercourse with her willingly
and he has no knowledge of the arrival of dawn.


Lo oye Upladny Loy ٨ USSG Jud
The Expiation And That Which Excuses It


Abu Hurairah narrated: While we were sitting with the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))a man came and said 'O Messenger of Allah! I have been
ruined.' Allah's Messenger asked what was the matter with him. He replied, 'I had
sexual intercourse with my wife while I was observing fast.' Allah's Messenger
asked him, "Can you free a slave?" He replied in the negative. Allah's Messenger
asked him, "Can you keep fast for two consecutive months?" He replied in the
negative. The Prophet asked him, "Can you afford to feed sixty poor persons?"
He replied in the negative. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))kept silent and while we were in this state, a big basket full of dates was brought
to the Prophet. He asked "Where is the questioner?" He replied, 'I am here.' The
Prophet said(to him)"Take this(basket of dates)and give it in charity." The man
said, 'Should I give it to a person poorer than I? By Allah, there is no family
between the two mountains(Medina)who are poorer than I.' The Prophet smiled
until his premolar teeth became visible and then said, "Feed your family with it."!


wo ٣ i ee oy ot ow gh a> ٩ te US ba


If a person violates the rules in the day of Ramadan, then he has made himself
liable for expiation, however, the expiation is excused if during that same day a
female received her menstrual period or she gave birth and was in the state of
postnatal bleeding(nifas)or during that same day the person was afflicted with an
illness, one which allows the breaking of the fast. If however a person
intentionally makes himself ill such as jumping off a building to injure himself in
order to escape from the expiation, then he has not succeeded because he is still
liable.


" Bukhari ١٩٣٦.


Book IV: FASTING ٣٤٥


Aly MN ale gale pry J de a Sa bye es be Vy
In contrast, the expiation is not excused if one is forced to travel in the same day(after it has already become imposed on him). And this applies even if one travels
willingly. This is according to the evident opinion on the matter. For example, if a
person indulges in sexual intercourse, then it becomes necessary to perform the
expiation. If however, such a person is forcefully taken on travel in that same day
or willingly, one remains liable.


BUS LL
The Expiation
CLL ae eae ad od Cale oy get ple ot jae OP kaye pb OS gly id)» FEU,
cpelte gl pele gl nats ae elas y le ogerny ٢٩ prety LS Ce pabl ¢ yall phar, ٢A Oe Ge
The expiation is the freeing of a slave, be it male or female, who is physically and
mentally sound, even if the slave is a non-believer. And if one is unable to free a
slave, then he is to fast two consecutive months, and these two months must not
coincide with the two Eid days or the days of Tashrig(١١"", ١٢th and ١٣" of Dhul-
Hijjah), for there must be no break between the sixty days, otherwise the
expiation will be invalid. If one is unable(to fast for two consecutive months)then
the expiation is to feed sixty unfortunate people who are to be treated to lunch
and dinner at their respective time, so that they are content. Note: The sixty
people who are treated to lunch must be the same sixty people who are treated to
dinner; or the unfortunate persons may be treated to two lunches in two days or
two dinners for two nights, ie. one every night; or they may be treated to dinner


and a pre dawn meal. Note: if one unfortunate person is fed for sixty days, then it
is valid, because it is equivalent to sixty people.


aad ٣ pat ol of pbs sl ads pe sl abo lp oy Glo iat nib JS aw I
It is also permitted to give each poor person half a measure[sa]of wheat or flour,


or one measure[sa]of dates or barley, or the value equal to the above may be
given to each of the sixty persons.


cell fe lan, op Jy iG allan d ell Gotare ST ple oe Surly ٣S CAS y


One expiation suffices for sexual intercourse committed on many days or for the
act of eating on many days throughout Ramadan even though these(offences)are
days of Ramadan of two different years. This is provided that the expiation does
not fall between two violations(such as sexual intercourse). For example; if one
indulges in sexual intercourse on the first day and then immediately after that
pays the expiation, should he commit a further violation later, then a separate
expiation will have to be given. Therefore, one expiation suffices for multiple
violations committed over many years provided no other violation is committed
after having paid the expiation.

