٣٩٠ BOOK V: ZAKAT


These are the eight types of recipients upon which zakat is forwarded to, provided
two conditions are met; i)that one is Muslim and ii)that it not be the father,
children or wife of the person paying the zakat, because he is required to fund
them anyway through his general expenses(not zakat). If however, one is not
obliged to fund one of his relatives, then zakat may be allocated to them. It is
therefore not valid to pay zakat to; a)a disbeliever," b)a rich wealthy man who
possesses the minimum amount, c)to a wealthy infant, d)to a person of the family
of Hashim," and their freed slaves, e)to one's father, grandfather, his child, or the
child of his child, f)to his wife or g)to purchase the shrouds for a deceased
person.
ho oda sol le Las Vis


One has the option of restricting the entire zakat to one of these categories or may
distribute it among them equally.


Definition Of Each Of The Eight Types Of People
Ula aly Ved Le ad OLS! JS ٥٤d all Ul


١- A needy person(fagir)is one who possesses wealth, though it does not amount to a


nisab(minimum amount). In other words, a person who himself does not have
enough to pay zakat is deemed a poor person.


has pe She Lyel gh et WL YL! JS: ٩gd(SLI LI,


٢- A destitute and helpless person(miskin)is one who does not own anything aside


from a few basic necessities of his own. The circumstances of the destitute are
worse than that of a needy person.


ple ob pgebe CF yf NS iI eae Si: ygd Plu Ul;


٣- Those employed to collect are persons who are appointed by the Islamic head of
state or government to collect zakat.


They can however be given other types of sadaqah although Imam Shafi'i disagrees and
held that he is not to pay it to him and this too is a narration from Abu Yusuf. The Hanafi
school relies on the words of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Give
charity to the people of all religions]. Had it not been for a tradition narrated by Mu'adth,
we would have upheld payment to them out of the zakat as well.(Ibn Abi Shaybah. Al-
Zayla'i, vol. ٢, ٣٩٨). Al-Hidayah ٢٩١.

* The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[O Banu Hashim, God has
prohibited for you the dirty wash water of the people and their impurity, and has
compensated you with the fifth of the fifth].(Al-Zayla'i. vol.٢,٤٠٣). Banu Hashim are the
families of Ali, Abbas, Ja'far and al-Harith ibn 'Abd al-Muttalib((God be pleased with
them)as well as their clients. All these persons transcend from Hashim ibn Abd Munaf,
and the tribe takes its name from him.


Book V: ZAKAT ٣٩١


Hgcatd gh eM DLLs B١٥ II pe glans pling ale ail fro HOW ٥: gd og gh WILL,
٤d ge sb lyedd sl ate


+ Those whose hearts have recently been reconciled(new Muslims)are people who the
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would give zakat so that they
would accept Islam or new converts were given zakat to strengthen their faith or
zakat was given to people so that when they returned to their(non-believing)people, they would preach about Allah and His Messenger((God bless him and
grant him peace)). It should be noted that Umar((God be pleased with him))discontinued the giving of zakat to new converts due to Islam's increasing
number.


fees ٦ pom ged JU pe Ltd eigell Lak Ob peel Ye petal ae ٠ ais | lS cy dU Leal : cA(ob SDs
eee Las fe Lo > cals SIL Lua PAH! os

٥- Slaves purchasing their freedom are slaves who make an agreement with their

masters, in that if they pay a fixed amount of wealth to their master, they will be


freed. Islam therefore established a portion of the zakat for them as it is
concerned with their freedom.


٤٥)dle ٦ ne sul cpl: Pally


٦- Those in debt are persons who are in debt and unable to settle it. Note: one may
be in possession of a nisab, though one's debt is in excess of this amount.


Mi BAIS «hel Lads rl)PLY! gates sill a gdlg at dl: yn Cail Le ٣)٧- Striving in the path of Allah - refers to the soldiers whom the imam prepares for
war with the intention of making high the Word of Allah. They are therefore
given enough to suffice them for the operation.


atbeg Adal JS pe sll pe py eral ay alatecd Stall ps a Gg pe LMS ya(Lt Ns
ody ٩ AS SL JIS ٤٣ SS MN Se oye gaa


٨ The Traveller(wayfarer)is a traveller who has no spending money at hand
therefore bringing his journey to a stand-still and rendering him unable to reach
his destination where he does have wealth. He is therefore given from the wealth
of zakat even if he possesses a great amount of wealth in his homeland.

