BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٧٩


instrument to extract water such as a rope or bucket is deemed a valid reason for
making tayammum. Additionally, if one fears he will miss the Funeral or Eid
prayer, then he is to make tayammum. And even if one begins the(Funeral or Eid
prayer)with the imam and then inadvertently breaks wudu, he is permitted to
renew tayammum and complete the same prayer. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased
with him))reported[If the funeral prayer came suddenly and you feared you
would miss it, pray it with tayammum].' The reason tayammum is permitted for
these prayers based on the fear of missing them is because if they are missed, they
cannot be made up later.


C٥ gly Seadlicryd aye plas ols
It is not a valid reason if one fears he will miss the Friday prayer or the time of an


obligatory prayer because the Friday prayer has a substitute, namely the dhuAr
prayer and the obligatory prayer can be made up as gada.

ay aay GLY fe Sy pdt LAS ٢ NI ae ope pals eect OS OF: QIU
٣- The third condition requires that it be from a pure earth substance, such as
soil, stone and sand as well as gypsum, limestone, kohl, clay and arsenic
according to the Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, while Abu Yusuf maintained that
it is not permitted except with earth and sand. A person cannot perform
tayammum with wood, silver or gold as well as metal. Vital note: everything that
turns to ashes upon burning and everything that is made in fire cannot be used
for tayammum and anything else is permitted." Al-Shafi'i held that it is only
permissible with earth in which things can grow, and this has also been narrated
from Abu Yusuf due to the words of the exalted[Then take for yourselves clean


earth and perform tayammum with itl,' that is, soil used for sowing which is the
view held by Ibn Abbas.


ceth rll ole: wl

٤- The fourth stipulation is to completely wipe the parts required, which is the
face and the hands up to the elbows. One must therefore remove his ring,
interlace or rub between his fingers and wipe the entire skin of his face including
the hair according to the correct view. Another view holds that the majority of the
face is sufficient as well as the hands.' The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[Tayammum is two strikes, a strike for the face and a strike for the
arms to his elbows].° This is also what the Prophet observed, because he was
asked about the method of wiping;[So he struck the ground with his palms, then
raised them to his face, after which he struck the ground again and then wiped his
arms, the inner part and outer part until he touched his elbows with his hands].°


" Tbn Ady Al-Kamil ٧/١٨٢.

? Maraky al-Falah ٧٥.

* Quran ٤:٤٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٧٥.

° Hakim Al-Mustadrak ١/٢٨٧.

® Ad-Darqutani in his Sunan vol.١, ١٧٩.

