BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٨٣


Of ٤p ٠٩l po ae ٥)alee spat VY dla daly cp gelling ces Y Je SOUS Of ane yr of ab ky
anh ye Wald ane lS


One is required to request water from an accompanying person(or one of his
companions if they have it), provided that one is in a place where people are not
stingy or miserly with the water." And if one is not given water unless it is paid for
at the average price, then one must pay if he has extra money left-over from what
is needed for his basic requirements. If however the water is being sold at an
unreasonable price, then it is not compulsory to purchase the water. Hence, these
are the three conditions that require the purchase of the water; i.e. that one is in a
place where people are not stingy with water(this is to indicate that the water will
generally be given in such a place), the price is standard, and one has the means
to purchase it apart from what he needs for his basic requirements. A person is
not required to purchase the water if it is selling at a high price or at the average
price, though one does not have the means to purchase it, or one needs the funds
for his basic requirements."


eal all
Prayer With Tayammum
One may offer as many obligatory and voluntary prayers he desires with only one
tayammum, though it is superior to repeat tayammum in order to remove oneself
from the view of the Shafi'i Madhhab. Imam Shafi'i held that he is to perform
tayammum(afresh)for every obligatory prayer. The Hanafi view is that he is in a
state of purification as long as water is unavailable, which means he can perform


his obligation as long as its condition is valid. Therefore, tayammum acts like
wudu in that one is deemed pure until it is broken.


cS Il Le nd roy


It is valid to perform tayammum before the entry of the prayer time, just like it is
valid to offer as many obligatory and optional prayers one likes, because
tayammum is purification that is legally acknowledged provided the water is
unavailable. Therefore, tayammum acts in its place as long as this condition is
present.'


If one is in to a place where people are miserly with the water or they will not give water under
any circumstances, then one is to make tayammum and pray. What is meant here is that one is
convinced he will be refused or denied, in which case one is to perform tayammum and pray. If
one of his companions has water, he is to ask him prior to performing tayammum. If one
performs tayammum before making a request or demand for water, it is valid according to Abu
Hanifa because it is not binding upon him to make such a demand on another person's
property. The two disciples maintain that he does not acquire the reward because water is
usually given.[Al-Hidaya ٥١].

? Maraky al-Falah ٧٨.

٣ AlFigh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ١٢٠.


٨٤ BOOK ١: PURIFICATION


pad Ee at gh Os ssl ols Jy
If the majority or half of the body is injured, one is permitted to perform


tayammum. The limbs which are assessed in this case are those used in wudu.
Therefore, if half of these limbs or the majority is hurt, tayammum is permitted.
For example: if the head, face and arms are injured and yet there is no injury with
the feet, one is permitted to observe tayammum.


atl cae Lak bere o IOS Ul,
If the majority of the body is sound, then one is to wash the unharmed area and


wipe the injured part.
ots Pl ow aot Vs


One cannot combine the use of water and tayammum together; for example, a
person cannot use water for half his arm, and perform tayammum for the other
half. If one does not have enough water to complete washing, then he is to observe


tayammum.


Moreover, if one forgets water during his journey, performs tayammum and
prays, but later remembers that he has water, he is not to repeat the prayer
according to Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, while Abu Yusuf held that he is to
repeat it. The disagreement pertains to the situation of where he placed the water.
Did he place it in a particular place or did someone do so at his command; and
remembering at the time of prayer or thereafter is the same. Note: there are three
scenarios here: a)he placed it himself and did not look for it, b)his slave or
servant did it for him, but he did not know, and c)he did so himself, but forgot. In
the first case, his prayer is not valid on the basis of consensus[ijma]. The other
two cases are discussed here. Abu Yusuf argues that he is a "seeker of water" and
on a journey a traveller is usually prepared with respect to water and looking for it
is required of him. Abu Hanifa and Muhammad hold that there is no such ability
without knowledge, and the water on a journey is readied for drinking and not for
other use. "
meal ail »
Nullifications Of Tayammum
GUS AN Slee Ue dually oy b gl ail way


The factors that nullify tayammum are the same as wudu. It is also annulled
when one has the ability to use a sufficient amount of water to wash the required
parts at least once. The meaning of 'having the ability to use the water' is to have a
quantity of water sufficient for wudu, even if one has only enough to wash each
limb once. Having the ability to use the water also means one's excuse of permitting
tayammum is no longer present, such as the enemy retreating or one's sickness
has been alleviated or it is no longer cold or one has found an instrument by
which to extract water, in which case tayammum is void.





" Al-Hidaya ٥٠.

