٣٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


et peg Je ene MSE MI lode bd fects yay gle pt pb;


٣/ The third type is water that is pure in itself, though is not purifying for other
things. This is water that one has used to remove his minor impurity(either
through the process of wudu or bathing)or water used to make wudu upon with
the intention of attaining the pleasure of God. Verily, if a person already in the
state of wudu renews his wudu without intending the pleasure or nearness of God,
it is classified as wastage because one is already in wudu. In addition, when
making wudu upon wudu for the purpose of closeness to God, the second wudu
must be made at a different place to that of the first, otherwise it is regarded as
wastage(even if one intended nearness to God). If one makes wudu upon wudu in


the same place, it is disliked and the water from the second wudu is not regarded
as used water[musta'mal].


Moreover, nearness to God can be achieved by washing the hands before and
after eating given that the Prophet said "Wudu(the intended meaning is — the washing
of the hands)is a blessing prior to eating."' Therefore, if one washes his hands in
the state of wudu and intended nearness to God, the water is deemed used[musta 'mal]. If nearness to God is not the objective, the water is not deemed used.'


Furthermore, used water[musta'mal]is fit for the purification of physical filth[najasa hagigiyya| from the body or clothes, such as urine, pus and wine, but it not
purifying for major or minor impurity[hadath| and therefore unfit for wudu and ghusl.
Overall, the water used to remove one's minor impurity or the water used to make wudu upon


wudu(intending the pleasure of God)is deemed used water. It is not valid to perform wudu or
bath with this used water.'


e Sian oll Tr gs
When Does Water Become Used?
Andel -٥٦ aSlaail > pees Worrell press


Water becomes used right after it separates from the body. For example, a person
who is washing his arm renders the water used right after it separates from the


limb.
٤+ ٩٢ sj YL
That Which Is Not Permitted For Wudu
AE ٥ pat bop tee Jy ply tle EVs


One is not permitted to make wudu with tree water or fruit water(fruit juice)even
if the water flows out by itself without being squeezed, and this is the most
evident view on the basis that it has been mixed and is no longer plain water. An
example is the juice from grapes.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٣.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٣.
٩ Maraky al-Falah ١٣ | Fiqh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٢.

