٣٣٨ BOOK IV: FASTING


pall tnt Ye ol
That Which Does Not Nullify The Fast


bw Oy ney in| ٣
There are generally twenty-four things that do not nullify fasting:
Let ale shot sl fst JL


Eating, drinking or having sexual intercourse forgetfully, does not break the fast.
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[If anyone of you
forgetfully eats or drinks(while observing fast)he should complete his fasting, for
Allah has fed him and given him to drink]."


SIG ٥٥ SS Joly vo pS pte ٠ Sy JSb oly op ٠ Sig pall fe Bytd gt OS do},
٠ Si ete


If one has the ability to fast, yet he forgetfully eats or drinks, then he is to be
reminded of fasting by onlookers, and failure to remind him is disliked. If on the
other hand this person appears to have no strength or ability to fast, then it is
better not to remind him.


Sadly SN plal oly ٥٣ ١ bs Jt I


If a person has an orgasm because of looking or thinking about the sexual area of
a female, it does not break the fast, even if one stared or thought about it for a
while. And the reason fasting is not void is because there is no intercourse and not
even a picture or form resembling it. The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[Three things do not break a person's fast; vomit, cupping and
discharge].


ail> J donb tes gly Joost gl - prot si


Applying oil to the body does not break the fast. Likewise, the application of
eyeliner(kohl)does not break the fast even if the taste appears in the throat, and
even if the colour appears in the saliva, because A'ishah((God be pleased with
her))narrated that the Prophet applied eyeliner(koh!)while he was fasting.'


ea! ٣
If one is subjected to cupping, the fast is not broken because((The Prophet was
cupped whilst he was muhrim and while fasting))." Note: There is a hadith
attributed to the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))that he said[The


cupper and the one who is subjected to cupping, breaks their fast], the meaning
here is that they lose their reward, not that their fast is broken.*





" Bukhari ١٩٣٣.

? At-Tirmidhi and Darqutani. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ٢, ٤٤٦.
٣ Ibn Majah ١٦٧٨.

' Bukhari ١٩٣٨.

٥ Abu Dawud, Ibn Majah and al-Baihagi.

