٦٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION





Saat atl oly J
That Which Is Compulsory To Wash
et pte dol Lt i ٢ te
It is compulsory to wash eleven things during the major bath;


Bye Oddly EV y pill Jae


Washing the mouth, nostrils and the entire body once, is obligatory in the major
bath because Allah said in the Quran[If you are in a state of ceremonial impurity,
bath your whole body]." This is a clear command requiring the washing of the
entire body which includes the nose and mouth, though not the inner part of the
eyes. Imam Shafi'i on the other hand disagreed with respect to the mouth and
nostrils in the major bath saying that these are its sunan due to the words of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))who said[Ten things are part of
fitra, and he mentioned from among them the gargling and the rinsing of the
nostrils].' Additionally, the reason the gargling and rinsing the nostrils are not
obligatory in wudu, but are in the major bath is because in the verse concerning
wudu, we are ordered to wash the face which excludes the nostrils and mouth.


a J re Y ads eles
It is obligatory to wash the inner area of the foreskin(that is usually removed


when circumcised)provided it can be opened or unwrapped without difficulty. If
there is difficulty, the requirement is lifted.


pre pF ny ٨ oy
To wash the inner part of the navel is obligatory. Likewise, to wash an opening(such as a hole or slot)in the body that has not sealed is obligatory. One should be
gentle and not exert hardship upon himself.


Lalas fo ٣ at op pyinall Jota


It is obligatory for a man to undo his braids and wash the inside. And he is to do
this every time he undertakes a major bath. And even if the water reaches the root
of his hair while it is tied, it is not valid; he must undo his braids and allow water
to reach the roots. This is because a man does not receive a dispensation based on
beautification, although the woman does.'


J geod Soll os pe Oa AN at yey yiaall Y


a

" Al-Maida ٦.

٢

; Recorded by all the sound compilations except Bukhari.[Al-Hidayah ١٩}.
Maraky al-Falah ٦٣.

