٩٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


BLT Spall asleod usd)oye Se pie plo Vitec acer
It is sunna to begin the wiping from the toes of the feet up to the shin with spread
fingers. It has been narrated that the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))passed by a man who was performing wudu and he was washing his khuf,
the Prophet then took him by the hand and said, "Verily, my Lord ordered me to wipe
like this," and the Prophet showed him from the front of the khuf toward the leg
once, and the Prophet spread between the fingers."


cl ail y
Nullifications Of Wiping


elatl as jf dal peace palin y
There are four things which annul wiping;


£ ٢ gl pis + <~ JS
١- Wiping is nullified by all things which nullify wudu. This means that if one
breaks wind for example, then his wudu is void as well as the wiping over the
footgear. Therefore, he must make wudu again and wipe the footgear. However,
he is not required to take off the footgear and wash his feet.


AL Ske SI eal ASI oy Sus gly Bi
٢- The removal of the khuf invalidates the wiping, not wudu. The same mule
applies even if the majority of the foot is revealed, because once the foot is
exposed, the minor impurity extends to the foot which now requires washing.
Moreover, the removal of the khufon one foot requires the removal of the other
and the washing of both.'


ceed fe IG esl guol psi Ul dLely
٣- When the majority of one of the feet becomes wet with water, the wiping is
ruined. This is achieved when over half the foot becomes wet.
Ol cys he y led AE ١ OL BA ge


٤- When the period for wiping expires, the wiping is nullified provided one does
not fear he will lose his leg due to intense cold. If one fears such a thing, then he is
permitted to keep the footgear on until it is safe to take them off. In addition, if
the period expires while one is praying, the prayer is void.


hb ey Pei cVswWiae,


The last three points(namely, point ٢, ٣, and ٤)require only, the washing of the feet,
not wudu.


" Tabarani ٢/٣٠.
* Maraky al-Falah ٨٣.

