BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩٣


Taking an ant and killing it is disapproved without a reason. Though if it bites, it
is not disliked. Umar Ibn al-Khattab((God be pleased with him))would kill the
ant in prayer until its blood appeared on his hand." Also, to cover the face and
mouth during prayer is disliked.


gnedl bol A are ond Srgt oss


Placing something in the mouth that prevents the recitation of Quran is disliked,
such as money or tissue. If however, it is something that melts, it nullifies prayer'


ale ١٣٥ Je > ynHIly


Prostration on the wrapping of the turban without having a reason such as intense
heat or frost on the ground, is disliked. Note: if the wrapping is around the
forehead and is prostrated on, it is valid for the reason that a covering between
the forehead and ground does not prevent the validity of prostration.'


pe Sey
To prostrate on a picture that resembles living beings is disapproved.
GNU jie Wigs Je Las Yl,


To prostrate using only the forehead without having a valid reason with the nose
is disliked since it is wajib to place the nose unless one has a reason.


Geb! ٣ sMuchly
To pray on a road that people use is disliked.
ctl dss eltts


To pray in a washroom or in the vicinity where a person relieves himself such as a
communal toilet is detested. In the time of the Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))there were areas where people went to relieve their need known as a
communal toilet area or dunghill. Note: the term washroom means a place of
washing only that does not have a toilet in it.


ole WH pall ٢ rhy onadl Gy


Prayer at graveyards is detested. Ibn Umar said[The Prophet forbade the
observance of prayer in seven places: a dunghill, a slaughter house, a graveyard,
the middle of the path, a bathroom and a watering place where camels drink
water and sit, and upon the(roof)of the ka'bah].' Additionally, to pray on land
without the permission of its owner is disliked.


"la as-Sunan ٥/١٥١.

? Maraky al-Falah ٢٠١.
٣ Maraky al Falah ٢٠١.
* Ibn Majah ٧٤٦.

