٣٤٢ BOOK IV: FASTING


Eating raw meat, even if it is damaged requires expiation and a make-up day.
Though if the meat is worm infested, it does not necessitate expiation for the
reason that there are no nutrients left in the meat of which benefit is derived."


Sb yl tall ht G ptt sty


Eating the fat(or grease of meat)nullifies the fast and requires expiation and
gada, and this is the opted view according to Imam Abi Laith.


GLEYL po Addy


Eating jerked(or cured)meat breaks the fast and necessitates the penalty of
expiation and gada, and this has the agreement of the Hanafi scholars.


ND dod Antes OV Vc pent y dad! jst,


Eating a seed of wheat(or chewing it and then eating it), breaks the fast and
makes one liable for expiation and a make-up day. Except if the seed is chewed
and consequently melts away(leaving no trace in the throat), in which case, the
fast does not break and no expiation is necessary. Indeed, because it is such a
trivial quantity that by melting away and not appearing in the throat, it sticks to
the teeth, which means nothing has entered the stomach.


If one swallows a seed of wheat, sesame or something of the like, things from
outside the mouth(meaning they were not stuck between one's teeth and were put
in the mouth and swallowed), the fast breaks and one is liable for expiation and a
makeup day, and this is the preferred view by scholars.


Glas a Vl nba Jsi,


Eating a beneficial type of soil(known as Armani)nullifies the fast absolutely and
necessitates expiation and gada. And it does not matter whether one is in the habit
of eating it or not. Note, this type of earth is known to contain some medical
benefit. Maraky al-Falah states that this was commonly consumed by pregnant
women to gain some benefit and based on this benefit the expiation is necessary."


alsi steel o}Jaalls oI pe cabal


Eating soil that is non-beneficial, such as dry earth[known as tifil], nullifies the fast,
and necessitates expiation provided one is in the habit of eating it. Though if one
is mot in the habit of eating this kind of soil, then the expiation is not
necessitated.*


SGM Ja cell


" Maraky al-Falah, ٣٧٦.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٦ point ٤.
Tifil is described as dry earth. Maraky al-Falah ٣٧٧.

