٢٤٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


Furthermore, if one is certain that he has acquired the state of minor impurity[Aadath]and he has doubt about whether he is pure, then he is regarded as being
in a state of minor impurity. If one is certain he is pure and has doubt about being
in a state of minor impurity, then he is deemed pure. This corresponds to the base
rule that certainty is not removed with doubt. Moreover, if one doubts some of
the aspects of his wudu and this is the first time it had come to mind(meaning it
is not regular), then one is to wash the place of concern. If the doubt is frequent,
one is to disregard it. The same applies to the wiping of the head.'


BS ٩ yee OL


The Recital Prostration


There are verses in the Quran that if recited, require the reciter to prostrate as well as the one
who hears its recitation. There ave three conditions that validate the recital prostration and
they are: ١)to be pure from minor impurity and physical defilement, ٢)One must face the
direction of prayer, ٣)and one must cover his nakedness, i.e., the awrah of the male and female
must be covered. The pillar of the recital prostration is to place the forehead on the ground.
And its ruling is as follows: if it is recited in prayer, it is necessary to perform immediately.
And if it is recited outside of prayer, then it is necessary to perform, but may be slightly delayed,
though is disliked. Additionally, it cannot be performed with tayammum unless the conditions
of tayammum are satisfied.


dnS> ٩ By AS > pre
The Cause Of The Recital Prostration And Its Ruling
be opel o Sy Beall dS dO! HLA be Coly gay. ermal d Lally SU Ue sy Mall a.


The reason for the prostration of recital is due to the reader who recites one of its
verses and the listener who hears it; and this is the soundest view. The recital
prostration is wajid to perform and may be slightly delayed according to Imam
Muhammad if it is recited outside of prayer, although it is somewhat disliked to
delay from its time. Abu Yusuf held one narration from Imam Abu Hanifa; that it
is wajib to prostrate immediately for one who recites one of the verses of
prostration. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said(The


prostration is(obligatory)for one who hears it and for one who recites it}.?
Wh ٥!)UW oy dees


The prostration becomes wajib upon anyone who recites one of its verses, even if
it is recited in Persian or in any other language and this is agreed upon.


Cea SAS ٦ Lgl ops ote sh dG LIS ae Be i> tel iy


" Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٣٤.
' Ibn Abi Shaybah from Ibn Umar. Al-Dalai', vol. ٢, ١٧٨.

