١١٠ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Purification Of The Filth
Ally Gab pl el pas Vy ermal fe ayes gly lpr Shy Ai Seley mcs glans


Visible filth(even if it is heavy)is purified by removing the actual filth itself even
if this is achieved by washing it once. This is the correct view according to Abu
Hanifa. If its removal is difficult, there is no harm if some trace remains, such as
colour or smell. And this degree of difficulty is achieved when one is required to
resort to other than water for the removal of the impurity such as soap. In
summary, washing is not a stipulation after the substance has been removed.
'There are however, many opinions on that which can be removed by one washing
and that which cannot."


By NS pally UW ia is Ms,


If the filth is invisible, it is to be washed three times and wrung after each wash.
Washing the invisible filth three times is obligatory. Though, according to Imam
Shafi'i it is compulsory to wash seven times, and one of the times with soil for the
filth of the dog.


٣ yl gb ples
Liquid Purifiers
os Qeoleg JAS eye Sle IS UL Sadly GI ٣٦ dale ry


Filth[najasa]is purified from the body and clothes with water or any liquid that


removes filth, such as vinegar and rose water.
db CIS hy ٠ oe oles ope Wb ory att gl y


The footgear and the like are purified by rubbing them on the ground or soil
provided the filth is in a solid form even if it is moist. The majority of the scholars
hold this view. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said, "If anyone
stepped on something of harm with his khuf, then the purification of that is soil,"
and the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said, "If one arrives at the
mosque then he should observe his khuf, if he sees upon his khuf, something of
harm or filth, then he should wipe(rub)them and pray with them." Al-Hidayah
maintains the following[In the case of it being moist, it is not permitted until the
boot is washed]for the reason that rubbing on the soil will increase it and not
purify it. However, Abu Yusuf held that if he rubs it on the soil until no effect of
impurity remains, it is deemed pure."


Al-Hidayah ٣٨.
? Abu Dawud ٣٨٥ and ٦٥٠.
° Al-Hidayah ٧١.


BOOK |: PURIFICATION ١١]Tebh ops y tt ghey


Swords and the like, such as metal objects are purified by wiping them either in
soil or with a cloth because in this situation, the filth cannot penetrate. The
Companions(God be pleased with them all)would kill a disbeliever with their
swords, and then wipe them and pray.


ges encall ٠.٩٢ Upcle Ballo jle Gir y G٢)ye Ube plead lily


When the traces of filth disappear from the ground, such as the colour and smell
of urine, and the ground becomes dry, prayer is permitted on that very ground.
The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Any ground which is
dry, then verily it is pure]. However, tayammum is not permissible from that
ground because from what is determined is that the ground must be pure with
respect to itself and purifying for other things, as commanded by God[Perform
tayammum with clean sand or earth]," and this soil is pure with respect to itself,
but is not purifying for other things and for this reason one cannot perform
tayammum with this earth.


dilime SUIS y pt gel: be play


Likewise, what is upon the earth such as trees(plants)and standing grass become
pure from filth upon drying.


WG ٥ fol gh A be ols Gre SL ILL phi,


Filth is purified when its essence(that is, its substance or structure)molecularly
transforms into something else, such as a pig becoming salt, dust or soap or fire
has turned it into ash. Another example is wine turning into vinegar. This means
that the essence of the thing is no longer in its original form.


abn; de JN pgleny OAS y SI ye ٤S ey GUN ll pple


Sperm[mani]which has become dry is purified by scratching it off the clothes and
body, even if it is the discharge of a female. And wet sperm is purified by washing
it. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Wash it if it is wet
and rub it if it is dry].? Imam Shafi'i held that sperm is pure. However, this is
contrary to the proof Abu Hanifa adopted; namely, the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))said[The dress is washed due to five things.]and among
them he mentioned Mani(sperm)}."





" Al-Maida ٦.
: Darqutani, ١/١٢٥.
٣ Darqutani. Al-Zayla'i, vol, ١, ٢١٠. Al-Hidayah, ٧١.}! BOOK I: PURIFICATION
Ua priy EM de Bly Gb Jead
Purifying The Hide(Skin)Of A Dead Animal
Vy ٢ DH ale VI meets Se IS ASL y ob WS Ratt ELL EM Ube pple


Th hide(skin)of a dead animal(including that of the dog)is purified via true
taxing.' This can be achieved by using karadh(which are pods of the mimosa
plat that are used to remove the foul smell and dampness and keep it from
rusing. Salt and the peel extracts of oranges are also common in this process), or
thhide may be tanned by something that has the same legal status as true
taming, such as cleansing the hide with soil or placing it in the sun. The Prophet((G@d bless him and grant him peace))said, "Hide which has been tanned is
pur." The hide of a pig however, does not become pure by any means of
taming. The same applies to the skin of a human due to its dignity.


٤ pe real fo aad ٠٥٢ A SU pe tle Le AISI! gles y


The hide of an animal whose meat is unlawful is purified if it is slaughtered in
acordance with Islamic Law, whilst the meat remains unlawful, and this is the
conect view which the fatwa coincides with. One must keep in mind that this rule
exudes the pig. This means that the skin of an unlawful animal is purified
witout requiring the process of tanning provided it is slaughtered in the way
Ishm prescribed(though the meat remains unlawful).


Threfore, if the animal is dead, its skin is purified by true tanning or something
ofiimilar legal status. Additionally, if the animal whose meat is not lawful is
slaghtered in accordance with Islamic law, the skin is rendered pure, while the
mat :s not. The slaughtering in effect compensates for the tanning.


ps bbe shanty SIAN Oily ٥٩ pred a My pratt bl nme Y pl ad ss Vepgt So
tena J wen waslls :


Allother parts of the animal which blood does not flow through is regarded as
pur such as the hair and feathers that have separated from the animal, including
thehorns, hoofs and bones that contain no fatty grease. However, the nerves are
impure according to the soundest view.


SMe ast, GLAS ٣ lb ALM daly


" Thevord tanned or tanning is to make an animal's skin into leather by treating it with
ctenicals. A tanner is the word used for a person who does this.(Oxford dictionary).
? A:Tsmidhi, the Book of Purification(The Tanned Hide of a Dead Animal)١٧٢٨.

