٤٢ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


StL liad She dado Slay cas hye Vlog cele Vlg ٥٩٤ Ld bead


What Is and Is Not Permitted To Use In Istinja
And What Is Disliked At The Time Of Relief


pl ٨)dl ٢٢٥ ٥ t Y


It is mot permitted to expose the private area[awrah]for istinja during the
presence of others. If there are onlookers, then istinja is performed under the
clothes. If one uncovers the private area in the presence of others, he is regarded
as an immoral person[fasig}due to its unlawfulness.


SE y ٦ aby jp Le dey ١٣]Ball ane cera Von pill pi oj gle oly Yr F ee oj slZ ١
OMe cp AE Ey I ٨S AS cp IY


If the filth crosses the boundary of one's exit passage and is greater than the size
of a dirham, prayer is not valid if there is something available to remove the
impurity, such as water. One is to do his best in removing the impurity without
exposing the private area to onlookers.


tlaxw Via o SL


That Which Is Disliked To Use In Istinja
dene ٣ wey elabs pe tla! oy


It is disliked to use bones and the food of humans or animals because it is deemed
as waste and because the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))prevented us from doing so as he said[Do not perform istinja with faeces or bones,
for it is food for your brothers of the jinn]and he said[Do not waste, do not
waste]."


se eV)sal dhs chai y cle BSS ٦ FE oot Gara clrda pry es aly


It is disliked to use baked bricks and anything made with fire, such as tiles, as well
as earthenware, charcoal, glass, gypsum and items of value or respectable such as
silk or cotton. It is disliked to use the right hand unless there is a valid reason.
Salman said[The Prophet forbade us from cleaning the private parts with the
right hand, and from cleansing with less than three stones, or cleansing with dung
or bone].' The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))also said[When
anyone of you urinates, he must not touch his penis with his right hand, and when
he goes to relieve himself he must not wipe with his right hand, and when he
drinks, he must not drink in one breath].?


" Reported by an-Nasai ١/٧٢ and Ibn Majah ٤٢٤ - The Book of Purification and its Sunna.
* Bukhari and Muslim ٢٦٧.
* Abu Dawud ٣١.

