BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٣٧


Ce J dacs[Sti abad ٠٠ gree fF cab IY ol Ol,

If one stands for the third rak'ah(of a prayer consisting of four rak'ahs), thereafter
the prayer in congregation starts before he prostrates for the third rak'ah, he is to
cut off his prayer standing by giving finishing salams(or return to the sitting posture
and give the finishing salams), and this is the most correct view. AsSarakhsy said, "If
one does not return to the sitting posture, the prayer is void, because sitting is
required." Fakhr al-Islam said, "The sound position is that one is to say 'Allahu
akbar' standing intending to begin the prayer of the imam. By this, he will attain
completion of his prayer within his commencing of the prayer of the imam; and if
he wants, he may raise his hands for the takbir.""


PIAS)eh fe her(isl LI)adb gill oF sl bd ¢ bb dea Gal Ly
CF ill da a ga oF oa ٩!


If a person is offering the sunna of the Friday prayer, and then the imam emerges
for the sermon, he is to give the finishing salams after two rak'ahs. This is also the
case if one is offering the sunna of the dhuhr prayer, and then the prayer in
congregation commences; that is, he is to give finishing salams after two rak"ahs.
Following this, one is to complete the sunna after praying the obligatory prayer.


WS٥ pb dot, ٤٩٨ cpl Of andl G VEL ce Je Vy oct! ٢ dee GPL Vy pa oy


If a person arrives at the mosque and finds the imam offering the obligatory
prayer, he is to join the imam and is not to preoccupy himself with the sunna,
except the sunna of the dawn prayer provided he is sure he will not miss the
obligatory prayer with the imam. Indeed, one is to offer the sunna of fajr even if
he is in the mosque, though one should offer it away from the lines of the group
prayer. And even if one is sure he will only catch the tashahhud of the imam, he is
to offer the dawn sunna because it has greater merit than any other sunna prayer.'
The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[When the call to
commence the prayer has been announced, there is no prayer except the one
being commenced].* However, this excludes the sunna of the dawn prayer as the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The rak'ahs of fajr are more
loved to me than the world and what it contains]. Though if one fears he will miss
the dawn prayer with the imam by praying the sunna, then he is to leave it and
join the group.





" Maraky al-Falah ٢٦٩.
® Maraky al-Falah ٢٧٠.
٣ Muslim.


٢٣٨ BOOK Il: PRAYER


& yaad! Seall Lad Se
The Ruling Of Making Up Sunna Prayers
we Al eo le ye Y]pall ad,
The sunna of the fajr cannot be made up unless one misses the fajr prayer with it


as well in which case one performs the sunna first, then the fajr prayer. However
Imam Muhammad held that one may offer the sunna after the sun has risen, but
before the sun reaches its zenith. He held that there is no make-up[gada)of the
sunna as the sun is rising or after the dhuhr has enters, which was agreed upon.


anid[٥٠٥٩ ٥ gall ١٥ NEI cad


If one misses the sunna before the dhuhr, he is to make it up before offering the two
rak'ahs which come after the dhuhr prayer, because originally, the sunna of the
four rak'ahs precede the sunna of two rak'ahs. This was the view of the author
which coincides with the majority. Furthermore, the makeup of this sunna is to be
done in the time of dhusr.


WII yas Gat glad Sal pe aS)Soh dele pglall fra Jy


A person is not considered as having offered the dhuhr prayer in congregation if
he only catches one rak'ah with the imam; rather he has caught the superiority
and excellence of the congregation. This person has gained the spiritual
superiority of the congregation, though he has not prayed the dhuhr with the
congregation in reality." This means that is one offers one rak'ah of the dhuhr
prayer in congregation, it cannot be said that one has offered the dhuhr prayer in
congregation. Based on this, if one promises to pray the dhuhr in congregation
and he only offers one rak'ah of it in a group, then he has not fulfilled his
promise. The same rule applies to catching two rak'ahs of the dhuhr prayer; and
this is agreed upon." And scholars differed about the one who catches three
rak'ahs with the imam, whether or not he has made the prayer with the
congregation.


In addition, the reward[thawabd]of the congregation differs to the superiority and
excellence[fad]of the congregation. It is agreed upon that whoever catches one
rak'ah from a four rak'ah prayer — then he does not attain the reward of the
group; rather he attains the superiority and excellence of it. The same rule applies
to catching two rak'ahs in congregation(from a four rak'ah prayer). Scholars
differed with respect to catching two rak'ahs from a three rak'ah prayer as well as
three rak'ahs from a four rak'ah prayer. It is said that in such cases, one attains the
reward[thawab]of the group because one has completed the majority of the
prayer, while others held the contrary."


" Al-Hidayah ١٧٧.
٢ Maraky al-Falah ٢٧١.
* Nur al-Idah ١٥٠.

