٢٧٠ BOOK I: PRAYER


JusSl ٣ ٣٥٥
The Time Of The Eid Prayer
Vil y٥ Stones of aes ٣d tl PLB! oy le bee cy


The valid time to perform the Eid prayer is when the sun has risen above the
horizon the height of a spears length or two, and ends at(just prior to)noon.


Jol Le Las
How To Perform The Eid Prayer
tal Be gy ls ees LAS


One is to intend the prayer of Eid within himself, and is also required to intend
being linked with his imam as mentioned in the Conditions Of Prayer. The imam is
to utter his intention of leading the prayer."


oS se pd de pc WS oS


Then the opening Allahu akbar is given, after which the imam and follower recite
the opening glorification[thana'.


Lee JS Ste aby UW tly HONS AS ٠S


The additional takbirs are then performed by the imam and followers, and they
are three takbirs for which the hands are raised for each one of them, and this is
the way of Ibn Mas'ud. Note: They are called the additional ¢akbirs as they are
additional to the opening ¢akbir and it is sunna to remain silent between each
takbir the time equivalent to three takbirs.


C٥٢٨ oh SEM hes eed came ٩٥٥ PI ٩ ٦ By yee ٠d RELY ae FN pe geen oF DH GS
After this, the imam is to seek refuge with Allah from Satan the cursed for
recitation and then silently say, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Gracious."
He then recites the Fatiha along with another surah preferably being "Sabi Hisma


Rabbikal Alah" reciting the whole surah. Following this, he is to proceed into the
bowing posture with the people.


BUN ٨)yer ٠ SS OI iy By pb od EWE pb DIU Lead StU pb ١٣
When the imam rises for the second rak'ah, he is to begin with the basmala,' then
the Fatiha, followed by a surah; and it is recommended that the surah be al
Ghashiya according to Abu Hanifa. The Prophet((God bless him and give him


peace))would read in the two Eids and Friday prayer, Sabi Hisma Rabbikal A 'tah
and Hal-ataka hadithul Ghashiya.°


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٧.
* That is, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate".
* Abu Hanifa's Musnad ١٤٢

