BOOK II: PRAYER ١٤٧





pst peel Se Myler y ler ٦ ٥ oF ols


In a group prayer, if many people use personal reasoning investigating the
direction of prayer due to total darkness and it results in many people facing
different directions because they are unaware of their imam's situation with
respect to what direction he is facing, then their prayer is valid. If however
someone steps in front of the imam, then his prayer is void.


all oely ٣
The Wajib Elements Of Prayer'
ee Ae le ts
There are eighteen practices necessary in prayer
aZ Lal el ٥


Recitation of the Fatiha is wajib due to the words of the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))[Whoever does not recite surah al-Fatiha in his prayer, his
salat is invalid].? This hadith indicates that the prayer is not perfect without it, not
that the prayer is invalid, because the hadith is a solitary hadith[ahad]. And
solitary transmission does not abrogate the saying of Allah[Read of the Quran as
much as may be easy for you].? Abu Hanifa holds that the minimum recitation
that is deemed valid in prayer is one verse whereas the two jurists held that it is
three short verses or one long verse.'


sill pe negate nb Oa GOL linge pes
In(any)two rak'ahs of an obligatory prayer, it is wajib to add to the Fatiha, a


surah or three verses of Quran. Note: this is the Hanafi position, that if one recites
a surah with the Fatiha in any two rak'ahs, the prayer is correct. Though in saying


" Lexically, the term wajib may be given several names, one of which is lazim(necessary).
Legally, in the Hanafi school: it is that which is established with a proof that is subject to
resemblance. This resemblance can occur in the proof itself, such as implying two meanings or
more or it can be in the proofs establishment, such as being a solitary[ata]hadith on the
condition that it implies only one meaning. As for what is established with a definitively
established text[gat'i], such as the Quran or hadith Muttawatir, that is not speculative, then it is
deemed obligatory. Moreover, the ruling upon the wajib is as follows: intentionally leaving a
wajib element is deserving of punishment, while its performance is rewarded. The one who
rejects it is not deemed a disbeliever. If a person absentmindedly omits a wajib act in prayer, it
does not nullify the prayer provided he observes the prostrations of forgetfulness. Moreover, the
wajib acts were introduced in order to perfect the obligatory acts and that the sunan were
introduced in order to perfect the wajib acts and that the adab were introduced in order to
perfect the sunan.[Maraky al-Falah ١٤١].

? Bukhari ٧٥٦.

* Muzzammil ٢٠.[Maraky al-Falah ١٤١).

* Al-Hidayah.


١٤٨ BOOK HI: PRAYER


this, it is also wajib to fix the recitation of the surah(with the Fatiha)in the first
two rak'ahs as the Prophet did.


edly ps OLS)ar Ss


Additionally, it is wajib to recite a surah with the Fatiha in all the rak'ahs of the
witr and voluntary prayers.


dV Sow ey


The recitation of a surah or three verses is to be fixed in the first two rak'ahs of all
obligatory prayers, due to the Prophet's diligence in observing this((God bless
him and grant him peace)).


By gett be WI tty


It is wayib to recite the Fatiha before the surah. And if one begins to read the
surah first and then remembers the order, he must repeat the Fatiha and then
read the surah and thereafter prostrate due to forgetfulness. "


opr J qe BY Ay


It is wajtb to place both the nose and forehead on the ground in prostration. It is
not lawful to limit the prostration with the nose only unless one has a reason to do
so.

La J SUSY AG aS)IS J UN Be SL OLY s


In every rak'ah, it is wayib to perform the second prostration before switching to
another action of the prayer, namely, the standing for the next rak'ah. If on the
other hand, one neglects the etiquette of the two prostrations by omitting one of
them from a rak'ah and instead stands up for another rak'ah, it is permissible and
does not invalidate prayer provided the person performs the prostration he
neglected."


OS Nig oka Vy


It is necessary to remain motionless for a moment in all the pillars of prayer, i.e.
to be in a state of serenity and calmness in each pillar of prayer before moving
into the next position. This serenity is achieved by allowing one's limbs to come
to rest and their joints at ease. It is reported that the Prophet entered the mosque
during which a man entered and performed his prayers, then he came to the
Prophet and gave salam to him, upon which the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))returned the salam and said[Return and pray, for you did not
pray]. The man returned and observed prayer as he prayed before, thereafter, he
came to the Prophet and gave salam upon which the Prophet returned the salam
and said[Return and pray, for you did not pray], and this occurred three times.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٤٢.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٤٢.

