١٨٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


If anyone of these mentioned nullification points occurs before adopting the last
sitting for the equivalent time of reciting the tashahhud, the prayer is deemed
void. Note: the duration time of the last sitting is the time it takes to recite the
tashahhud, though if it occurs after one has adopted the sitting for the equivalent
time it takes to recite the tashahhud, then the opted view is that the prayer is valid(as held by Imam Muhammad and Abu Yusuf). However, Abu Hanifa maintained
that it is void. The rule here is that coming out of the prayer based on the act of
the one praying is obligatory according to Abu Hanifa, while it is not according to
the two jurists. Therefore, the involvement of these acts at this stage(i¢. after the
tashahhud in the last sitting)is the same as their involvement during the prayer,
while the two jurists held it is like their involvement after the salams."


٨ SoH G٥ pablo Leyte


It is also invalid by extending the Aamza in the takbir, that is, the first letter in
Allahu akbar. This invalidates the prayer because the meaning of the words have
been severely altered due to the incorrect pronunciation. This point has been
mentioned earlier. See the chapter — How To Perform Prayer.


warns cy saat Y Leiel Jy


Reciting Quran that is not memorised; rather it is from the mus'haf or another
source, annuls the prayer. Abu Hanifa held that if the imam recites his Quran
from the mus'haf, his prayer is invalid. The two jurists maintained that it remains
intact because it is a form of worship.'


Wale Lae Qe gh iy gall GAS ae LE]I Sy olaly


To perform a pillar of prayer or having time to perform a pillar, during which
one's private area is uncovered or during which one has filth on his clothes,
nullifies prayer. If however one repels the filth straight after it falls leaving no
trace or one covers the private part immediately after it becomes exposed, then
the prayer remains sound. The filth in this text is that which is non-excusable and
prevents the validity of prayer.


wale]٤٣٥ ٤S sles d ٣٥ p sazall daly
Performing a pillar earlier than one's imam, and not being joined by the imam in


its performance, invalidates the prayer for the follower. For example: the follower
bowed and raised his head before the imam had bowed.


" Al-Hidayah ١٤٥.
? Al-Hidayah ١٥٢.

