The Chapter Of Witr


des OES SW pry rly Zyl


The prayer of witr is necessary[wajib]. This was the ruling held by Imam Abu
Hanifa, and it is three rak'ahs with one pair of finishing salams only in the last
rak'ah. That is, the three rak'ahs are not separated from each other through
salams. A narration from Ibn Mas'ud, Ubay ibn Ka''b, A'isha and Umm Salam
reports that the Messenger of Allah((God bless him and grant him peace))would
perform witr consisting of three rak'ahs, and would not give salam except at the
end of the three." The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said(The
witr is a duty, so he who does not observe it does not belong to us; the witr is a
duty, so he who does not observe it does not belong to us; the witr is a duty, so he
who does not observe it does not belong to us].? In addition, the one who denies
the validity of this prayer is not deemed an unbeliever as its requirement has been
established through the sunna. It is performed at the time of 'isha, therefore its
adhan and igama are deemed sufficient for it.*


Abu Yusuf and Muhammad held the witr as sunna on the basis of the Prophet's
saying, "Three is prescribed for me and has not been written upon you.""
However, according to the two companions, it is of the highest levels with respect
to the sunan, to the extent that it is not permitted seated with the ability to stand
and neither upon one's beast without an excuse. Moreover, the witr is to made up
as gada if missed as mentioned in al-Mahit.°


ges)fe paring ae Ody ply le ley ty yey EW aS,[SGI dY


In each rak'ah of the witr prayer, it is waytb to recite the Fatiha and a surah. One
is also required to adopt the sitting posture at the end of the second rak'ah and
recite only the tashahhud.


And one is not to recite the opening glorification of prayer when standing for the
third rak'ah because one is not beginning another prayer.


" Extracted by Ibn Abu Ya'la from Ibn Mas'ud that the Prophet would recite in the first
rak'ah of the witr "Sabih Isma Rabbikal A'la," and in the second rak'ah "Qul Ya Ayyuhal
Kaftrun," and in the third rak'ah "Qui huwallaku Ahad." Hadith Ubay is reported in the
Musnad of Ahmad ٥/١٢٣, Nasai ٣/٢٣٥ and Ibn Majah ١١٨٢. The hadith of A'isha is
reported in Al-Mustadrak, ١/٣٠٤ and is related by Ahmad in his Musnad ١/١٥٥-١٥٦ and
Nasai in Mujtaba Min as-Sunan ٣/٢٣٤, ١٦٩٨. Al-Hakim said that the hadith is sound
meeting the conditions of Bukhari and Muslim.[Al-Ikhtiyar ٨٥].

* Abu Dawud, ١٤١٤. Al-Hakim confirmed the authenticity of this hadith.

٣ Maraky al-Falah ٢١٦ / Al-Hidaya ١٥٩.

* Alkhtiyar ٨٥

> AL-khtiyar ٨٤-٨٥.


٢٠٢ BOOK Il: PRAYER


TN ae GG SM SB Cay ١S cb aad ld Gy by gd Ey Mal ٣ oe FDL


After the recitation of the surah in the third rak'ah, one is to raise his hands to the
level of the ears and say, "Allahu akbar" and thereafter supplicate while standing
before bowing, and this is to be performed as described everyday throughout the
year. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))[Would perform qunut
in the witr before ruku];" and according to Abu Hanifa one is to place the right
hand over the left hand, whereas Abu Yusuf held, that one should raise the hands
as Ibn Mas'ud would raise them with the palms facing the sky. In addition, Imam
Shafi"i held that one should not supplicate qunut in the witr prayer except in the
second half of the month of Ramadan and held that the qunut is after the bowing


posture."
FP po GRY


One is not to utter the qunut(supplication)except in the witr. Imam Shafi'i held
that one is not to utter the qunut in the witr prayer except in the second half of
Ramadan, though he held that it is to be uttered in the dawn prayer throughout
the year. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))uttered the qunut for
one month in the fajr prayer invoking Allah to punish the tribes of Ril and
Dhakwan.' This was because the Prophet((Peace and blessings of God be upon
him))was betrayed which led to seventy Muslims being slain upon which he
supplicated in the dawn prayer. Imam Abu Jafar at-Tahawi said that one should
not recite the qunut in the dawn prayer unless a calamity has transpired, in which
case there is no harm. If the qunut is made in the dawn prayer, it is performed
after the bowing as the Prophet performed.


With regards to reciting gunut in all the prayers in the event of a calamity upon the Muslims,
only Imam Shafi held this view. Though Imam Ibn Abidin held that in the event of a
calamity, the imam is to recite the qunut in the audible prayers only and this ts the view held
by Imam Ahmad and Imam Thawri."


SS ٩ th Sy Ud yg Day Hedges y Hrs Lif Ql: Spey ob yay ele atl oles or pills
domes fai Ny tei SLY GU! SD ret oe Spey lt Sa Vy SS cals dT de pty Hele
Ally pol Cts Le dbl roy Gone USL ILI thle Of thle ٢٥٥ they gop dinsy gad ULI


UNS oo gill as ٥ gli ye hey





" An-Nasai ١٦٩٨

? Maraky al-Falah ٢١٧.
* Bukhari ١٠٠٣

; Maraky al-Falah ٢١٨.

