BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٣


٣/ If a worm exits a wound, or exits from the ear or nose, it does not break wudu
on the basis that it is not deemed filthy due to its very minimal dampness.
However, if it exits through the anus, ablution is nullified. Hence, it is deemed as
something that breaks ablution when it exits from the two passages, though this
excludes all other locations.
Pes

٤/ Touching one's penis, anus or a woman's genitalia, does not nullify wudu. This
was the Madhhab of some of the great Companions such as Umar, Ali, Ibn
Mas'ud, Ibn Abbas and Zaid ibn Thabit as well as some of the great Tabi'in such
as al-Hasan al-Basri, Sa'id and Thawr((God be pleased with them all)). The basis
for this view is the hadith that a man came to the Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))and said, "O Messenger of Allah. What do you say about a man
who touches his genitals in prayer?" Thereupon the Prophet said to him, "Is it not
a body part from you."' And Imam Tirmidhi said about the above hadith that it is
the best hadith on the subject and the most sound. However, touching one's
genitals requires the washing of the hands as the Prophet said, "Whoever touches
his genitals is to observe wudu." Scholars said that the term wudu in this hadith
is meant in its linguistic sense, which is to wash the hands.


al yal aay
٥/ Touching a woman does not nullify wudu. A'ishah((Allah be pleased with her))reported[The Prophet would fondle(and kiss)some of his wives, and then would
pray without making wudul."


pi eV Ss
٦/ Vomiting less than a mouthful is not an annulling factor.
IS by parle is


٧/ Vomiting phlegm(saliva)does not nullify wudu even if it is more than a
mouthful because it has not mixed with any filth, and saliva is pure.


Stade Sy)Jarrl pili ples
٨/ To sway while sleeping where there is a possibility of falling does not break
wudu. Meaning, if one is sitting upright with the buttocks on the ground, then the
swaying does not affect the wudu because the buttocks are firmly placed on the
ground. The Companions of the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would wait for the 'isha prayer until their heads drifted(sunk), then they prayed
and did not perform wudu).°


" At-Tirmidhi[Maraky al-Falah ٥٧].

* Musnad Ahmad ٤/٢٢, Abu Dawud, Tirmidhi | Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٧٨.
+ Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٧٨.

* AtTirmidhi and an-Nasai ١٦٥.

* Abu Dawud ٢٠٠

