BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٧٧


The Drought Prayer(Seeking Rain)acl pf cy Do a)There isa prayer for the seeking of rain. The prayer is not offered in a group, it is
prayed individually. The prayer is lawful with no dislike, and in saying this, it is
not sunna because Umar Ibn al-Khattab did not offer prayer when he sought rain.
His actions did not go beyond seeking forgiveness.' Additionally, Umar was the
most diligent in adhering to the sunna of the Prophet. The Prophet(God bless
him and grant him peace)requested rain with his Companions and had it been
established that he offered prayer, then it would have become well known. In
addition, there is a sound report that a man came to the Prophet complaining
about drought. The Prophet raised his hands seeking rain and there is no mention
of prayer or turning the cloak inside out. However, the fact that Umar left the
observance of prayer does not negate its permissibility. The basis of its
permissibility is owing to a Shadh narration mentioned on the matter.'


The scholars thereafter differed whether the prayer should be offered individually
or in a group. Abu Hanifa maintained that it is offered individually, not in a
group. Imams Muhammad and Abu Yusuf held, "The imam is to pray two
rak'ahs reciting Quran audibly such as in the Eid prayer, though without the
additional takbirs." The proof used to support this view is the narration of Ibn
Abbas(God be pleased with him)who said[The Prophet prayed for rain consisting of
two rak'ahs such as the prayer of Eid in which he recited aloud, and the prayer is without
adhan or igama].' They also held that the imam is to deliver a sermon after the
prayer like the Eid prayer. Concerning whether it be one or two sermons; Imam
Muhammad maintained that it be two sermons where the imam briefly sits
between them. Abu Yusuf held that it is to be one sermon after which the imam is
to face the qibla and turn his cloak inside out and supplicate the request of rain.
Therefore, the position of the Hanafi School is that it is permitted if it is offered
in a group.' However, it is up to the imam of the people; if he wishes he may
perform a prayer or not.


There is the seeking of forgiveness when seeking rain. Allah said[Ask forgiveness
from your Lord, for He is Oft Forgiving; He will send rain to you in abundance].*


" AlBaihagi ٣/٣٥١[Maraky al-Falah ٣١٥].
? Maraky al-Falah ٣١٥.

٣ AtTirmidhi ٥٥٨, Abu Dawud ١١٦٥.

* Maraky al-Falah. ٣١٥.

> Surah Nuh ١٠-١١.


٢٧٨ BOOK Il: PRAYER


Cal yee Udics tnd yo(Gd yo po)UE AL OS GIL LIEW oy Diy
tH ٩٥ SU SUS ab patle


It is recommended to exit the city for those seeking rain and depart into the
desert or into an outer region of the country for three consecutive days. They are
to exit walking in washed worn out clothes which are patched(or not), and they
are to be submissive and humble, fearing Allah during which the heads are


lowered.
JUDY y LSE pally ly ch]ony gre Lo ey JS Gall odin


Sadagah(charity)is to be forwarded for all the three days before leaving and all
should renew their repentance to Allah. It is recommended that the animals be
taken with the travellers for three days as well as the elderly and the young in
order to attract the Mercy of Allah upon them. The Prophet((God bless him and
give him peace))said[Had it not been for the pious youth, the grazing animals,
the elderly whom pray, and the young who breastfeed,(Allah)would have poured
punishment in a vast amount]."
Dypreck giV arly ol Dl ae gab ual oy I dy

The people who reside in Makkah are not to exit to the desert, but rather, are to
gather in the Masjid al-Haram. And the people who reside in Bait al Magqdis(Jerusalem)are to gather at Masjid al-Aqsah, the reason being is that these places
are honoured and there is an increased mercy that descends upon them of which
there is no doubt.


prey ale dit foo gill Syte La Lal lS aes


And this is also required for the residents of the Madina of the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))- that is, they are to gather in the masjid of the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace)). For even if the Prophet is not
present, the mercy of Allah continues to descend upon his enlightened Madina.
Allah says[You have not been sent, except as a mercy unto mankind].


Leger all aged Leys(lo eb Len We Ctl)nb Mele Ge le yp Le


During the supplication, the imam is to stand facing the qibla raising his hands,
while the people are sitting facing the qibla saying 'Amin' to the imam's
supplications. The supplication for rain is; Allah! Give us rain that will help us, that is
good and productive, in abundance that will come now and not later which covers{the ground
fertilising the crops}always. Other supplications resembling this may be also uttered,
silently or aloud.


" Tabarani ٢٢/٣٠٩ and al-Baihaqi ٣/٣٤٣.
* Al-Anbiya ١٠٧; Maraky al-Falah ٣١٦.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٧٩


ola bb ad ly
There is no switching around the cloak(reverse fold)during the request for rain
according to Abu Hanifa Switching the cloak means placing the right side of it on
the left side and vice verse or turning it upside down. This is do٩٨ne to indicate a
change of state. These actions are not to be performed in the view of Abu Hanifa,
though; Imam Muhammad stated that the cloak is to be switched. Al-Hidayah
however said that he is to turn his cloak inside out, due what is reported, that the
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))faced the qibla and tumed his cloak(inside out)."
eats

Non-Muslims are not to be present during the request for rain on the basis of
Umar preventing their presence; and because if rain is given, it will corrupt the
vulnerable Muslims. Also, the objective of the journey and departure is to attract
the mercy of God; whereas non-Muslims acquire His displeasure. This is the case
even if it is permissible to say that the supplication of the disbeliever is answered
as the text al-Khaniyya states. The reality is — the reason they are prevented from
attending is not because the supplication of the disbeliever is not accepted as
some have understood. However, the reason is because it is feared that the weak
Muslims will become misguided if they are given rain because of the disbelievers'
supplication. Therefore, it is paramount that the disbelievers not exit the city by
themselves for the request of rain, in order to prevent them corrupting the feeble
minded; and neither are they to exit with the Muslims because it is disliked to
unite their group with the Muslim one.'


J bles Ob


The Fear Prayer
Kee g Lge So>


Its Ruling and Reason
Bm NEF Guy ce gl pe pparn isle


The prayer of fear is permitted during the presence of an enemy or predatory
beast even if the fear is not immense.' The prayer of fear is permitted when one
fears he will drown in a flood or torrent or fears he will be burnt.


" Recorded by all six compilations.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣١٨.
* Maraky al-Falah ٣١٩.

