٢٥٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


a AS itr by -


Conditions Of The Recital Prostration
da pel Y]ball bat Ural b ty


The conditions which validate the recital prostration are the same conditions of
prayer, with the exception of the opening Allahu akbar.


BAS > pre RS


How To Perform The Recital Prostration
rs Vey gt Vy ٦ by We Oe A OS SS yy Bed Bde dre OF Lady


The recital prostration is performed as such; the individual prostrates once,
between two takbirs that are sunna There is no recitation of tashahhud or
finishing salams(i.e. one is to say one takbir and descend into prostration and
thereafter say the second takbir upon rising from the prostration, and during the
prostration, one should say three times "Glory be to my Lord most high."


Nid ٣ ed
The Prostration of Gratitude
PrN ide pS
Its Ruling
BB pt Ole Lal Wy SINUS F٥٩٠ Uple Ole Y dil amy die Gl PLY te day Se SI te
Upele my


The prostration of gratitude is disliked according to Imam Abu Hanifa, in which
one is not rewarded for doing, and its abandonment is better.? However, Imam
Muhammad and Imam Abu Yusuf held: "It is an action that brings one closer to Allah
in which one is rewarded for performing." Abu Bakr((God be pleased with him))said[When anything came to the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))which
caused pleasure(or by which he was made glad)he prostrated himself in gratitude
to Allah].' Imams Shafi'i and Ahmad held that the prostration of gratitude is
legally valid. Malik does not take it as legal, while Abu Hanifa said it is not
recommended. According to some scholars, ablution is necessary for this


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٩٢.

* Scholars gave several reasons as to why Abu Hanifa held this view. These include: Abu Hanifa
did not see this act as an act of full gratitude, and that complete gratitude is attained through a
prayer consisting of two rak'ahs as Prophet Muhammad did on the day of Fat'h Makkah. As for
what is related regarding the Prophet prostrating if he saw affliction and suffering, this is
abrogated.[Al-Figh al-Islamy, Ibrahim as-Salkini ٣٤٠].

* Abu Dawud ٢٧٦٨.

