٣٨٢ BOOK V: ZAKAT


ely Ga SN yey bs
Conditions That Make Zakat Obligatory On Live Stock
by EH pl SN GAS Sop)bi
Zakat on livestock becomes obligatory when three conditions are satisfied.
eLgole te bgt y Sym Ueade gan ot: JM


١. The first requires a year to pass over the animals while they are in the
possession of their owner.


bhai abs ol: jtlly


٢. The second requires the animals to reach the minimum number(nisab). Note:
Zakat on animals is calculated in number and not value.


Wg Fate OS gh alae ang |b ge FAS gli oo AT sl plat gb cle SG Ce al: SI,
aS Sys F | aS
٣. The animals must spend the whole year or most of it grazing in pastures. If the


animals graze or eat from what the owner has grown or paid for, such as hay, then
the zakat is not necessary to pay.


pals;
The Zakat on Camels
weal ope BLE gad J gD gale Ske y Lak CIS ١٣s B١S٥ GL LY oye LA oe BG Gd


There is no zakat if a person owns less than five camels. When a person owns five
camels and a(lunar)year passes over them, then the zakat of one sheep is to be
paid. This is the case up to nine camels.


cat BY ea ol Se okt OH lead ite A bY pai ol Up ULE ead te PY! nai ol Ul
coh aT gd


When the number reaches ١٠(up to ١٤), the zakat due is ٢ sheep. When they
reach ١٥(up to ١٩), the zakat is ٣ sheep. When the number reaches ٢٠(up to ٢٤),
the zakat is ٤ sheep.


ISG cobs y ae bi ٥ II gt LM oy bY oye ole ee Gad op ey LER LY! al Ol


When they reach ٢٥ head(up to ٣٥), the zakat is one bint makhad, a she-camel
which is one year old and entered its second year.


BSI eae y Dee D٥ NN ga UN Sag DY oe gS oe edd I y Ler PY os ples IB]Book V: ZAKAT ٣٨٣


When they are ٣٦(up to ٤٥), the zakat due is one bint labun, a she-camel which is
two years old and has entered its third year.


al G Conky ee SHS tl a abl, ٦ dam lead ual, Le LY ole lal os


When they reach ٤٦(up to ٦٠), there is a charge of one higgah, a she-camel which
is three years of age and has entered its fourth.


lB J cab y ee TUS Me eddy hed Mead Oey Ga}bY orks Bhs


When they are ٦١(up to ٧٥)there is a charge of one jadha'ah, a she camel which is
four years old and has entered its fifth year.


Soe pb g Ree Sf Obie Nped pndy gale]lee IBF A gh Key Ugedd yay Eee pV rye ١٣f


When they are ٧٦(up to ٩٠)the charge is two dint labuns. When they are ٩١(up to
١٢٠)the charge is two higgahs.


Be ON Ss BLE ay Oem Ugaad par gdy Lh y Be pred Ot Ue BLE A IS WS ٣٦ Dal BB


When the number exceeds ١٢٠(up to ١٤٤), the charge is one sheep for every five
camels. Therefore, for the first five in excess of ١٢٠, there is one sheep; for ten,
there is two seep; for fifteen, there is three sheep etc. up to ١٤٤. When the camels
reach ١٤٥(up to ١٤٩)the zakat due is a pair of higgahs plus one bint makhad. When
there are ١٥٠, the zakat due is three higgahs.


ALE Sy Gl SH Upedd Grey Gent Be pred gm BLs otal WS fe ٢ A


Thereafter, for every five camels in excess of ١٥٠(up to ١٧٤), the zakat is one
sheep. When they are ١٧٥ in number(up to ١٨٥)the zakat is three Azggahs plus
one bint makhad.


ds! Ue Ted ary ny Ble pad gm CO yd eng Gl SH Uged Cuiley ey BL puad g>
٦b peal ol


When they are ١٨٦(up to ١٩٥)the zakat is three higgahs plus one bint labun. When
they reach ١٩٦ up to ٢٠٠, the zakat is four Aiggahs.


remedy SW dey SI ntl ٣ LIS rt SS ete


Then, for every ٥٠ after ٢٠٠, one is to enact the same process he did in the ٥٠
after ١٥٠.

