BOOK II: PRAYER ١٧٥


It is disliked for women to gather and pray as a group. One of the reasons for its
dislike is due to the announcing of the call to prayer(adhan)and the call to
commence(iqama). Likewise, it is disliked for women to attend the congregational
prayer as the Prophet((Peace and blessing of God be upon him))said[Their
homes are better for them]and[Prayer in their homes are better]." If however the
females perform the prayer in their own congregation, it is necessary for the
female imam to stand in the middle advancing only her heel forward in the way
that a naked prayer is performed. If the female imam stands forward like a man,
she has sinned, though the prayer remains sound.


¢ pl ii ys


The Position Of The Follower
ails Sy PLY! cree ٦ Jol gl its,


If there is only one person with the imam, he is to stand to the right-hand side of
the imam. It is disliked to pray on the left side of the imam or behind due to the
hadith of Ibn Abbas who said, "I stood on the left side of the Prophet after which
he held me and directed me to his right;"' and if there is more than one person,


they are to pray behind the imam.
at! G eall ٥
The Manner Of The Lines
tL ad gtd ٦S dl wall ٦٥ Sle JI inary


The men are to form the first row or rows, then the boys, followed by the
hermaphrodites. This is a precautionary measure because if the hermaphrodite is
male then the standing behind boys will not harm them and if they are female
then she is already at the back, thereafter the females form the last row. Note: the
first line is considered as the best of all the lines in congregation. This is followed
by the second line and so on. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[Divine mercy is bestowed first on the imam, then it passes to those who are
opposite to him in the first line, then to those on his right side, and then on the
left side; then it passes over to the second line, and other lines in the same


manner].

ao afo of
" Ahmad ٢/٨٦.
٢ Muslim ٧٦٣.


٣ Maraky al-Falah ١٢٢.

