٩٨ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


atl oy poll hl
Pure Days between Two Menstrual Periods
o pSV a> Vy ly pe dh ead on poll phi pl,
The minimum days of purification that separates two menstrual periods is fifteen
days. There is no time limit on the maximum days she could be pure for because


it may extend to a year or two and cannot be determined by assessment, though it
is known she will have a minimum of fifteen pure days.


Hence, there is no limit for the maximum days of purity between two menstrual
periods; except for a female who just entered puberty suffering from chronic
vaginal bleeding[istihada]. In this case the scholars calculate for her ten days of
menstrual bleeding from when she first noticed the blood, regardless if she sees
the blood at the beginning of the month, its middle or end. She is to leave prayer
and fasting from the first sight of blood. She is then given a. maximum of fifteen
days in which she is deemed pure and required to offer prayer and fasting.
Women are required to make up the days of fasting in which they are deemed
pure.' Note: Al-JkAtiyar maintains that only ten days are regarded for her as
menstrual periods each month and in the remaining days(i.e. nineteen or twenty
days depending on the month)she is deemed pure and therefore required to
undertake the performance of prayer and fasting. This view is one relied upon in
the Madhhab contrary to the first view mentioned by Shurunbulali in Maraky
Falah that menstruation is ten days and chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]is
fifteen days.'


If however, a girl matures, though is not suffering from chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]and she develops a routine or schedule of regular days regarding
menstruation, though later she suffers from chronic vaginal bleeding[istihada]and
the bleeding continues through her regular days and exceed the maximum days
of menstruation[Aayd]or the maximum days of postnatal bleeding[nifas], then she
is to rely on her regular days(or schedule)and whatever increases upon her
regular days is considered chronic vaginal discharge[istihada].' In light of this, she
is to make up the prayers for the days beyond her habit. Note: when a woman has
established a routine, such as seven days for example, though on the following
period she exceeds this and bleeds for twelve days, then due to the fact that she
exceeded the maximum duration of menses, she is to fall back upon her regular
days(which are seven)and anything above this is deemed chronic discharge{istihada|. However, if she had not exceeded the ten days(and bled for nine days
only), then this new number of nine days would be regarded as her new routine
for the following month.


" Nur al-Idah ٥٨.
? Al-Ikhtiyar ٤٦.
٣ Nur al-Idah ٥٨.

