BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٩٩


Ibn Abidin states. If a period of purification(i.e. a stoppage of blood)occurs during
a woman's menses(where she bleeds, stops bleeding and then bleeds again), then
it is treated like the continual flow of blood. This is one of several views and the
reasoning is that the continuous flow of blood throughout the period of
menstruation is not a stipulation by consensus. This is one of the two narrations
from Abu Hanifa."


lilly adh sb
Forbidden Actions During Menstrual Periods And Postnatal Bleeding
etl as -lelly pate s٥
Eight things are forbidden for a woman during menses or postnatal bleeding;
e nally suall


١- Prayer is forbidden for the reason that the Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))said[When the menstruation begins, abandon prayer, and when it is
finished take a bath and pray].'


٢- Fasting, whether it is obligatory or optional, is unlawful on the basis of the
words of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace).


ol all Sod al ool ٣ y


٣- To recite a verse from the Quran is not lawful(i.e. the woman is not permitted
to read a verse of Quran, whether it is from memory or by reading it from the mus-
haf). This is due to the hadith of Ibn Umar who reported that the Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[The woman in the state of menses is not to
recite anything of the Quran and neither the sexually impure].' The unlawfulness
is the recitation. However, if it comes forth from one's tongue without the intent
of recitation, and was intended as supplication, or praise or intended as
invocation[tasbih], such as to say at the moment of tragedy, "To Allah we belong and
to Him we shall return," or at the time of mounting a beast "Glory be to the one who has
provided this for us, though we could never of had this via our own efforts;" or "Praise be to
Allah;" or "In the name of Allah;" or "O Allah! Forgive me and my parents;" then it is
permissible and not unlawful to utter any such things for there is no breach and
there is consensus among the scholars that invocations, takbir, tahlil(i.¢. there is no god
except Allah)and sending blessings upon Prophet Muhammad is permissible for
the one in the state of menses, postnatal bleeding and sexual impurity.
Furthermore, the Malikis permitted the menstruating woman and the woman
experiencing postnatal bleeding to recite Quran and touch it for recitation for the


" Radd al-Muhtar ١/٤٨٣.
? Abu Dawud ٢٨٦.
* Tirmidhi ١٣١, Ibn Majah ٥٩٦.

