BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٠٥


Jelly
Supererogatory Prayer |Nawafil]The author used the term nawafil and not sunan given that it is more common
and in view of the fact that all sunna is deemed nafl, though not vice versa.
Linguistically, nafl means extra, and legally, it is actions that are not obligatory,
not wajib and not sunna. And this is synonymous with the term voluntary or
optional, which is an act of worship performed by a person without being required
to do so.


BAS fe de ope
The emphasized sunan are:
The two rak'ahs before the dawn prayer(fajr), and this is one of the most
emphasized sunna, to the degree that Abu Hanifa said, "If one prays it while
sitting without a reason, it is not permitted." Abu Hanifa relied on the words of


the Prophet((Peace and blessings be upon him))[Do not omit them(the rak'ahs of
dawn)even if you are driven away by horses]."


Al JS erly ole ary oll tery bill de ObaS ٥


The two rak'ahs after the noon prayer(dhuhr), after the sunset prayer(maghrib),
after the nightfall prayer('sha), and the four rak'ahs before the noon prayer(dhuhr). The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[A person who
persists in praying twelve rak'ahs in a day and night, for him God will build a
house in heaven].°

dali Ladary deat! ١٥٥


Equally, the four rak'ahs before and after the Friday prayer finishing them with
salams in the last rak'ah are emphasized sunan. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased with
him))reported that the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))would
perform four before the Friday prayer and Abu Hurairah reported that the
Prophet said((After Jumu'a, you should perform four rak'ahs)).*


ll dey ceeds clinlly panll Jo esd ois


The recommended sunan are the four rak'ahs before the 'asr and the four before
and after the 'sha prayer. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Would offer four rak'ahs before 'isha and four rak'ahs after 'isha upon which he


" Maraky al-Falah ٢٢٥.
? Abu Dawud ١٢٥٣


٣ Recorded by the Imam's of sound compilation except Bukhari. Al-Zayla'i, vol. ٢,١٣٧- ٣٨.
* Ibn Majah ١١٢٩, ١١٣٢.

