١٣٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


the sunna of the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)and have sinned. It
is also maintained by Imam Muhammad that the adhan is wajib and that if the
residents of a land agree to give it up we would fight them. And the common
ground between these two rulings is that an emphasised sunna acts like a wajtb
with respect to the sin one receives for its omission." The Prophet(God bless him
and grant him peace)said[And one of you should pronounce the adhan for
prayer when its time is due].'


Moreover, it is not sunna to call the adhan for the funeral prayer, Eid prayer,
solar eclipse prayer, rain prayer, tarawth or the rawatib sunan, and neither is it
sunna for the witr prayer even though it is wajib to perform."


With respect to woman calling the adhan and iqama, it has been related from Ibn
Umar(God be pleased with him)that it is disliked for women to call the adhan or
igama, and there is no room for opinion in this judgement. Thus, he surely heard
this from the Prophet(God bless him and grant him peace)and he made clear,
that a woman's situation is based on her being discreet and that their raised voices
is a temptation and that the iqama is predominantly made with a raised voice.


BBY, ObYI bl
The Sayings Of The Adhan And Igama
MNS ee Vy bl BS ٠٢١ AS chy es lasl gd Sy


The person announcing the adhan is to recite 'Allahu akbar' four times at the start
and twice at the end, and likewise he is to recite the remainder of the sayings
twice. There is no repetition[éarji]in the two shahada's, which is to pronounce
the shahada's twice in a silent tone and then call them aloud for Bilal((God be
pleased with him))did not observe this practice.' However, the Maliki and Shafi'i
view is that it is sunna to utter the two shahada's in a low tone that is heard by the
people before calling them aloud.


ale EGY,
The iqama is like the adhan with respect to its words.

oe Baal li AE UY OG dary OS ٢ ٩ gl oe ٢ Tal enall CH de bs
During the adhan for the dawn prayer after the caller recites 'come to success,' he is
to add the words 'prayer is better than sleep' twice. And after uttering 'come to success'
in the iqama, he is to add the words 'he prayer is commencing, the prayer is


commencing.' This is what the angel descending from the sky did, and this is well
known.


" Al-Ikhtiyar ٦٤.

? Bukhari ٦٢٨.

* Kitab al-Fiqh 'Ala Madhahib al-Arba'a vol.١, ٢٨٣.
* Maraky al-Falah ١١٨.

