١٦٢ BOOK II: PRAYER


the tasmiyya would be uttered silently. And anyone who recites Quran in prayer is
to say, "In the name of Allah, Most Merciful, Most Compassionate," in every rak'ah
before the Fatiha only whether it be an obligatory or voluntary prayer.
Furthermore, it is not sunna to say the fasmiyya between the Fatiha and a surah,
but it is not disliked. And this is by agreement of the scholars.


ATW shay pels SL pyellly LY sal, aFWIL So


The Fatiha is then recited, after which the imam and the followers say, 'Amin'
silently. This is followed by the recitation of a surah from the Quran or three
verses. Silently in this case means, able to hear oneself, though inaudible to
others.


Coa pd coliod LWd.y UE a ames Mapbcl be phn dyes ٢٥٩ Mise jean od b pane Laden LST St
Jearhy Sy Grill a joe MLL! J LSU ley oe oh dal ae EG SLI, a,


One is then to say 'Allahu akbar' while moving downwards into the bowing
posture and pause for a moment in serenity(in the bowing posture)placing his
head evenly with his buttocks and holding the knees with his hands extending the
fingers and uttering the tasbih, 'Glory be to my Lord the great' three times which is the
minimum. Thereafter, he is to rise and pause for a moment at ease saying "Allah
has heard those who praise Him, our Lord all praise is Yours," if he is imam or praying
alone. It is sufficient for the follower to say, 'Lord, all praise is Yours,'[Rabbana
walakal hamd]as we were ordered in the hadith[If the imam says, "Allah has
heard those who praise Him," then say, "Our Lord, all praise is Yours."]."


Lene Utne ager y Ais trey AS One M٤ oF A oF MASI OSI Fo prenUILLE Soh
ebol ٢U٣.٥ UX


After that, one is to say, 'Allahu akbar' when declining into prostration and is to
place his knees on the ground, then his hands followed by his face between his
palms. He is to perform the prostration with his nose and forehead and pause for
a moment saying 'Glory be to my Lord most high' three times, and this is the
minimum.


Leadon, Ugalar ٣ ٣١٥ y


In the prostration, one is to distance his abdomen from his thighs and distance
his upper arm from the armpits when there is no crowd or cramming; and he is to
direct the fingers of his hands and toes of his feet towards qibla. The female in
prostration connects her limbs bringing them close together joining her abdomen
with her thighs. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))(Used to
prostrate creating as much space(between his torso and thighs)that if a kid(goat)" Bukhari ٧٣٤.

