١٣٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


Upon this, one is to supplicate and say, "O Allah, Lord of this comprehensive
invitation and enduring prayer, grant Muhammad a place near to You, an
excellence and exalted degree and bestow on him the praiseworthy station that
You have promised him."


Leis shy aall by ٢ Ob
Conditions Of The Prayer And Its Pillars
abe Seal ds ot SL


That Which Is Required For The Validity Of Prayer
Las pp poy dae oye Baal dma LY
In order for prayer to be valid, the following twenty-seven conditions must be satisfied:
ctl Teall and ye oo AE pre Ab prs oe WIL y gy DANS hg y ITI op ٥ iL gla!
Teel de tatty eS ly


Purification from the state of minor and major impurity. In addition, purity of
one's body, clothes, and place of prayer from filth which is not excusable is a
necessary condition. It has been described earlier that the amount less than that
of a dirham is excused for heavy filth; and for light filth, it is less than one quarter
of the clothes; and the area where the feet, hands, knees and forehead are placed
must also be pure, for if there is filth, the prayer is not valid. This is most correct
opinion as held by Abu Hanifa.


ahd fils ao ٢ le bi na Vy ip yall rey


Clothing one's nakedness and concealing the nakedness from view on all sides is
conditional for the validity of prayer, and it is of no harm if one's nakedness can
be seen by himself or others from the opening of the neck of the clothes or from


below.
cell fe Kee gly Upper dabell iy ne Go| asp ale SUG dill JL!


It is conditional to face the direction of prayer[gibla]. Accordingly, the one living
in Makkah who can see the ka'bah is required to face it directly. Whereas the one
who cannot see the ka'bah must face its direction(i.e. its location)even if he is in
Makkah, and this is the most correct view. With respect to the diagram below, the
person seen to the far right is legally regarded as facing the qibla, while the person
in the middle is truly facing it.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ١٣٧


é ٤





Maraky al-Falah ١٢٤





Wea yp dL Say pit ee


The arrival of the time of prayer is conditional for the validity of prayer and one
must be certain its time has arrived; consequently, if one prays and is not certain


if the time of prayer has arrived, the prayer is null and void even if the prayer
time had arrived."


ily


-


To form an intention is conditional. This consists of having a firm resolve in one's
mind in order to distinguish one act of worship from another.


Selb de poly


To say the opening Allahu akbar without separating it from one's intention is
conditional for the prayer to be correct. Note: a person may make his intention at
the opening Allahu akbar; or one may make his intention and then say the


opening Allahu akbar without a long gap between them. Both are valid according
to the Hanafi Madhhab.


ESM olasl Jo LU ie, adh oy
The second part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must utter the opening Allahu akbar while standing before bending for the bow[ruku. It is stated in the book al-Burhan: If a person attends the prayer and finds
the imam bowing and this person first bends his back and then offers the takbir, if
he was closer to standing; then his entry into the prayer is valid.
dns pull oF al pol ete s


The third part of the conditions that validates the opening Allahu akbar is; one
must not delay the intention from the opening Allahu akbar.


Teel fo aa pe tere dey tl Gly


" Maraky alFalah ١٢٥.

