BOOK I: PRAYER ٢٦٥


When the imam emerges, one is not to return the greeting of salam or to reply to
one who sneezes, because one cannot engage in something else other than the
listening to the imam and this applies when the imam appears to conduct the
Friday sermon. Abu Hanifa disliked the response to a person who sneezes and the
returning of salam to others when the imam emerges."


oll Se ٥ geet lal e gall le bd LY,


The imam is not to give salam to the people when he arrives at his point on the
pulpit because if he does so, he will compel the people to that which is unlawful;
namely speech.'


rar Abe hadi tes pall os ey Plo Sy


It is disliked for someone who is obliged to pray the Friday prayer, to leave the
city after hearing its call and not having prayed it.


SIN SS oe jhe lal o| etary


If a person who is not obliged to pray the Friday prayer attends it anyway, such as
a traveller, then it is credited for him as the obligation he had to perform in that
time, namely the dhuhr. Meaning, since one is not obliged to attend the Friday
prayer due to a valid reason, he must still perform the dhur prayer in that time.
However, if he attends the Friday prayer, it is credited for him as the obligation
required in that time.


YS pe J Ly ٠ ng flay Ugad PLY Ugall pam OL co > Ugh hall Joo Jd pte Y os


If a person prays the dhuhr prayer before the Friday prayer without an excuse, it is
unlawful, though his dhuér prayer is considered to have been formed if he does so.
Afterwards, if(he decides to attend the Friday congregation and)he moves
towards it and finds the imam performing it, then his dhuhr is nullified even if he
does not catch the imam in the Friday prayer. The reason is that the mere making
of an effort towards it renders his dhuhr void. However, Imam Muhammad and
Abu Yusuf held that it is not nullified until he joins the prayer with the imam.


pegs pall jae loe pgbill clal OymMy y ginal o Sy


It is disliked for those who are excused from the Friday prayer(such as a traveller
or sick person)as well as prisoners, to perform the dhuhr prayer in congregation in
a city on Friday. It is also disliked for the one excused from the Friday prayer to
offer the dhuhr prayer alone in the city prior to the people performing the Friday
prayer. It is recommended for the excused persons to delay the dhuhr prayer until
after the Friday prayer has concluded and to offer the dhuhr prayer alone.* The
basis for this is the following: i)city locations on Friday are designated for the
Friday assembly prayer. According to the Hanafi school, the Friday prayer is to be
observed in a comprehensive city and not in small villages outside the city. This


" Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٢.
? Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٣
٣ Nur al-Idah ١٦٦.

