٢٢٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


thereafter, he returns to his permanent residence, one's status of a traveller ceases
and he now has to offer the prayer in full.


PeVey dll y cates UBM yb y flay
The place of Iqama" ends when; i)a person locates to a similar place like it, or
ii)if he merely sets out on a journey from that place of dwelling, or iii)if he
returns to his permanent residence, in which case his temporary residence ceases.
For example: one travels from Australia to Syria where he is studying law. This
person intends his stay at a village called Barakah for about six months. This is
therefore known as his temporary place of residence(igama)where he is to offer
prayer normally because it is for fifteen days or more. If at some point this person
decides to move to another town, then his temporary residence at Barakah has
ended because he has moved to a similar place like it. Additionally, if this person
returns home to his permanent resident(ie. Australia), then his temporary
residence at Barakah is no longer regarded as such. Hence, one's iqama ends
when, a)one locates to a place like it; b)returns to his hometown; and c)sets out
on a journey from that place. With respect to point 'c' of setting out on a journey:
this means that if one goes sight-seeing for the day and it was ٨l١km away, then he
is permitted to shorten his prayer(and his temporary residence ceases until he
returns).
ae NESW Y ted Lady cad she ea she ad Ay Gill pe Lob I

One's permanent residence(homeland)is the place one is born or married. And
even if one did not marry there, but intended to live in as a permanent place of
stay and not to emigrate from it. Thus, it t is regarded as a permanent place of
stay in which one intends to live and remain in. If for example, a person born in
Australia travels to the United Kingdom to study medicine and he takes up
residence on campus until his course is complete; then his place of temporary
residence(igama)is the United Kingdom, though his permanent residence is
Australia.


GB |b po hai GUN ٥٩٥ op LUN by,
The place of iqama(temporary residence)is the place one intends to reside in for
half a month or more(that is, fifteen days or more). This means, if a person


travels to another country and intends to reside there for at least fifteen days, then
he must offer his prayers normally.


He Ba ٠٩٩ ٤B LU ٥ pyle pry gS pb ٩ O gated pow dy
The place where one intends to reside for dess than fifteen days is not regarded by
scholars as a place of residence. This means that if a person goes on travel and


decides to remain in a village or town for dess than fifteen days, he is permitted to
shorten prayer for that duration.


o
O


o,
O١٠ Oe Oe


٢
©


" The place of igama is one's temporary residence where one has intended at least fifteen days.

