BOOK II: PRAYER ١٥٥


When bowing, it is sunna to grab the knees with the hands and to spread the
fingers out. The female is not to extend her fingers. It is also sunna in the bowing
posture, to keep the legs vertical while the back is straight and to make the head
even with the buttocks as related in the hadith[If the Prophet((God bless him
and grant him peace))was in ruku he would even his back that if water was
poured on his head it would remain]."


Ltakae oda Lally ¢ ٩٥S cp ad sly


To rise from the bow and then stand for a moment in serenity is from the sunan,
whereas Abu Hanifa held the rise as obligatory.


٢? ٤ SE ٩ ٢ greed dpe ٩ pF od ol Sy Ay


When offering the prostration, it is sunna to place the knees upon the ground,
followed by the hands, and thereafter the face. Additionally, it is sunna to do the
opposite when rising from prostration(i.e. the face, hands and knees). If however
one is frail, then he may do what is possible.[The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))would when he was performing prostration place his knees
before his hands, and when rising, would raise his hands before his knees}.(ar)eb pS ٢ prot! Sy


To say, 'Allahu akbar' when declining for prostration and when rising from it, is
sunna as the Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would recite Allahu
akbar for every incline and decline.'


٤S Uy > yrSl OS


To prostrate between the palms is sunna. The Prophet((God bless him and grant
him peace))[Would place his face between his hands when prostrating].' Whereas
Imam Shafi'i disagreed and used as proof the hadith related in Bukhari, that is[When the Prophet prostrated, he would place his hands near his shoulders].


Uttering the tasbih, 'Glory be to my Lord, most high' three times in the prostration is
sunna. Abdullah Ibn Mas'ud reported the Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))as saying[When one of you bows, he should say three times: 'Glory be to
my Lord the great,' and when he prostrates, he should say: 'Glory be to my Lord
most high' three times. This is the minimum number].'


OM ٩٦ ٦١٥٣٩ tee Yo py ISS oe aly fo Nilile,


" Tbn Majah ٨٧٢.

٢ Abu Dawud ٨٣٧.
٣ Muslim ٣٩٢.

* Muslim ٤٠١.

٥ Abu Dawud ٨٨٥.

