١٢٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


٤٣ ٥d ot ey SV ce Glows nall ٣ bl ot pV)In summer(or hot conditions)it is recommended to delay the noon prayer until it
becomes cooler. Though in winter time(or cool conditions)it is recommended to
pray it early unless it is overcast in which case it is better to delay, in order to be
certain the time has arrived. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[In very hot weather, delay the noon prayer, till it becomes(a little)cooler,
because the severity of the heat is from the raging of hellfire].' With respect to
offering prayer in cool conditions[The Prophet would offer the noon prayer
earlier if it was very cold].'


nal ph Ae past by


It is recommended to delay the afternoon prayer['asr]in winter and summer, but
not to the extent that the sun(changes and)becomes pale in colour. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))[Would delay the afternoon prayer as long
as the sun was still clear white].*> The Prophet((God bless him and grant him
peace))said[The following is the prayer of the hypocrite, he waits until the sun is
between the horns of Satan, then he gets up and observes four rak'ahs and does
not remember Allah except a little].


elen ddews


During overcast conditions it is recommended to perform the afternoon prayer
earlier in order to avoid the period which is disliked to perform prayer in. The
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))stated[Observe prayer earlier on a
cloudy day, for one who misses the afternoon prayer has destroyed all his work].°


ad F٣٣٩ tend Yo All pany
It is recommended to offer the sunset prayer(maghnb)early in winter and
summer, to the extent that between the adhan and iqama should be the time
equivalent to reciting three verses of Quran, except in overcast conditions, where
it is better to delay to be sure it has arrived. The Prophet((God bless him and
grant him peace))said[My nation will never cease to follow their natural


behaviour, so long as they do not delay the sunset prayer till the stars appear in a
large number}.°


eal dabeesy JUL EL SI clad nati


" Bukhari ٥٣٦.

* Bukhari ٩٠٦.

° Abu Dawud ٤٠٨.

* Narrated by the group.

* Ahmad and Ibn Majah ٦٩٤.
* Tbn Majah ٦٨٩.

