The Chapter Of Zakat
lS J ae
The Meaning Of Zakat
"netae he aad als ٥S lbs
Literally, zakat has two meanings,
Chee tS ٥.٩ A poled Gato ol gal ope dt): Sls yi aay cdl gall Ase l
١- The first is purity, such as the saying of Allah[Take from their wealth so that
you might purify and sanctify therm]."
NG ٩ ee ٦ Fy WIS ٥: WS ae y cole gtr I led y


٢- The second meaning is extra and growth, such as when a person says(the
plants have grown)intending the meaning, that they have increased.


OY ye Vy tle nb ple ab oe Le pe yee JU ose go SLE fe Sey ٢g SIS I pls


Zakat according to the Sacred Law is; the ownership of a certain amount of
wealth that has been prescribed by the law for a poor Muslim who is not a
Hashimy and neither a slave of a Hashimy. Note; ownership(or possession)means exclusive control over it and the right to undertake transactions with it.


the po Ee Olen y gn S>
Its Ruling And Upon Whom Is It Obligatory
aby ٠ Sy aly > BS Obs ele O٩٨ OES boy LR AS Cece oy JS Le ٢p aS Ny
WL ٩S oly
Zakat is obligatory on a person who satisfies five conditions;


١- One must be a Muslim. Zakat is not compulsory on the wealth owned by an
unbeliever living in a Muslim country; rather they will pay jizya - a protection tax.
The reason Islam is conditional is because zakat is an act of worship and such
worship cannot be brought about by an unbeliever.


٢- The person must be free, not a slave. The reason freedom is stipulated is
because perfect ownership can only arise through it.


٣- Maturity is conditional for the reason that it is not imposed upon a minor.


" Quran ٩:١٠٣.


٣٧٨ BOoK V: ZAKAT


٤- Sanity is conditional for the reason that zakat is not necessary on the wealth
possessed by children who have not yet gained intellect or those mentally
unsound according to Imam Abu Hanifa. However, Imam Malik, Shafi'i and
Ahmad hold that it is compulsory to be paid either by their parents or guardians.


Bye ٥٩٦ cp ed aslo slash ou gh sl = Sal IIL oS aly


٥- One must be in possession of a nisab(minimum amount)from things of a
productive nature of which a profit is derived, such as grazing cattle, crops, gold,
silver or merchandise for business. The nisab is a sum of wealth large enough to
require the owner to pay zakat on it. In addition, there is no zakat on effects that
are not of a productive nature, even if these things are in excess of one's needs,


such as cars, utensils, food, clothing, shelter, or furniture etc., if such items are not
for trade.


Lactol ~ c ٢ ٣ b ٣ ry
Conditions That Obligate Its Payment


eV clas! dh fe ddI St ob: sb oy Sl ban


The condition that obligates one to pay zakat is; the possession of the original
nisab(minimum amount)for a complete year. Meaning, one must own the


minimum amount and a year must pass over such ownership. Accordingly, the
obligation immediately arises on the passage of a year.


laclol ine by
Conditions That Validate Its Performance
cpt tebe orl gil laall je de Ly «ata Ustad soe Ld: al SIS Bl og gy Ol: ipl ened bites
BS ٥ deh L ob aS I ist ade bat Vgc Sb


In order for the act of offering the zakat to be valid, the one paying the zakat is
required to intend zakat, and he may do this when paying the zakat to the poor or
at the time when he is separating the required amount from the rest of his wealth.
This is essential to the proper performance of the act of giving zakat. To offer
zakat without an intention coinciding with the payment or with the setting-aside


of the obligatory portion is not valid. It is not a stipulation for the poor person
receiving the zakat to know that he is receiving zakat.

