٣٣٢ BOOK IV: FASTING


The Day Of Doubt(Uncertainty)JHB ob TL ably bal Gb ad ٥ ped Ay Las oe on aly ot LL ye LM


The day of doubt is the day after the twenty-ninth day of the month of Sha'ban.
Due to overcast conditions that have concealed the moon on this doubtful day,
there is an equal measure of knowledge and ignorance with respect to the reality
of the situation.


Please bo SHE We pe VWepe[Sado Sy


It is disliked to fast during this day except a voluntary fast that one is firm about
with no wavering(in the intention)between it and between other fasts. Hence, the
intention of a voluntary fast must be firm with no wavering or hesitation. The
Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The day of doubt is not to be
performed as a fast on the belief that it is Ramadan, rather it is observed as a
voluntary fast]."


wales be ace lil Olas; po al gb oly


If it appears that this day is from Ramadan, then one's voluntary fast suffices for
that of Ramadan. In other words, what one fasted is valid for that of Ramadan.
Note, this issue has several variations. First, if a person forms the intention of
Ramadan, it is disliked. Though if it becomes evident that it is from Ramadan,
then his fast is valid(as that of Ramadan)because he witnessed the moon and
maintained the fast. If it becomes clear that it is still the month of Sha'ban, then
his fast is regarded as a voluntary one. Second, if a person forms an intention of
another wajib fast, it is also disliked, except that this dislike is lesser than the first
case. If it then becomes evident that this day is from Ramadan, then his fast is
valid(as that of Ramadan)due to existence of the basic intention. If it appears
that it is the day of Sha'ban, then it is regarded for him as a voluntary fast. Third, a
person may form the intention for a voluntary fast, and there is no dislike about
this on the basis of the hadith. Fourth, one can make the intention itself
conditional, in that he will form the intention if it is Ramadan, but he will not if it
is from Sha'ban. With this type, he is not deemed as a person who is fasting
because he is not decisive in forming his intention. Fifth, is that he makes the
intention conditional regarding its details, in that he will form the intention to fast
if the next day is Ramadan, and if it is from Sha'ban, then he will fast on account
of another wajib fast. This is disliked due to indecision between two conditions
that are both disliked. If this day appears as Ramadan, then, his fast is valid
because he was unwavering in the structure of the intention itself. If however, it
turns out to be from Sha'ban, then his fasting of another wajib is not valid."[Bs SS bby ples gad ٢٠, dL)" Al-Zayla'i vol, ٢, ٤٤٠.
* Al-Hidayah ١٢٩-١٣٠.


BooK IV: FASTING ٣٣٣


If one is hesitant upon the day of doubt between fasting and breaking fast, then
he is ruled as not fasting, such as the saying, "/f it is Ramadan, then I am fasting and
if it is not, then I. am not fasting," and the reason one is ruled as not fasting is because
he is not decisive in his intention. And if it later appears that the day is from
Ramadan, then one is required to make up the day.


ai gd Lo SV Obes ole ey slo pepe ٠٥s
It is disliked to fast a day or two at the end of the month of Sha'ban. Though it is
not disliked to fast more than two days The Prophet((God bless him and give him
peace))said[Do not fast for a day or two ahead of Ramadan except a person who


is in that habit of observing a particular fast and he fasted on that day]." The
reason is that there should be a clear distinction between the two types of fasts.


J one dy SN Fy ٠٣ ١٣]UNG oF AL oye gL UI ill ob,


On the day of doubt, the mufti orders the people to wait(without the intention of
fasting). Afterwards, when the time for intention expires and the day did not
appear as that of Ramadan, the mufti orders the people to break the fast.


Mam Hey OI)٣ Jeo Al ٦ ants deans ys Sats oye gay pol Bl op ONS sey gelaly(pall ٤٥ ¢ pany
vw Al oF ٦٥٥


Though the mufti, judge and the elite are to fast during this day of doubt(as a
voluntary fast); and the elite are those able to control themselves from wavering in
their intention and able to differentiate their voluntary fast from the obligatory
one.


Olas SMa shy pe pS
The Ruling Upon One Who Sights The Moon Of Ramadan
hyd Je cis ill ٥٥ Vy placid na ioyy etm y bill sl Oar, J Gly oy


Whoever sees the moon of Ramadan alone, yet his statement is rejected by the
judge, he is required to fast on his own, for Allah said((So whomever witnessed
the month of Ramadan, must fast)).? Though if one sees the moon of Eid al-Fitr
alone and his statement is rejected, he is not permitted to break his fast even if he
is sure he has seen the moon of Shawwal.


Cel D gAlilors Le Lio bd US yc ade BUS Ys gd on SIG bil Of,


And if a person breaks fast in both these situations(i.e. when witnessing the moon
for the month of Ramadan and the month of Shawwal)then he is to make up the
days, though he is not liable for expiation(kaffarah)even if he broke his fast
before the judge had rejected his statements, and this is the correct view.


" Muslim ١٠٨٢.
? Al-Baqarah ١٨٥.


٣٣٤ BOooK IV: FASTING


de SL ols tb]Ua,


Verification Of The Moon If There Is An Obstruction In The Sky


Syed ٣ Cope bes)٩ cereal Spgs gh Je daly pe fo ope sh Le sl ae oye dhe ol IL obs tL y
Sad b pts Vy clas)OU G٥٥ Gla sae gl ed gl SV OS Sone fis)y alte aol dalgt de(am ٩M GMb y UN FAS)٥ get Vy colt


If there is an obstruction in the sky, such as clouds or dust, the imam is to accept
the testimony of a single upright witness or one whose situation is unknown, and this is
the correct view. And the imam is also to accept the news(of the sighting)even if
someone else of similar status to the witness — testifies based on what the witness
told him. For example, an upright person named 'X' sees the moon. He then
informs another upright person named 'Y' about what he saw. Person 'Y' then goes to
the judge and informs him that person 'X' witnessed the moon, and this is
accepted. Person 'Y' also needs to be of equal status to person 'X', such that if
person 'X' is upright, then person 'Y' is required to be upright — and this is the
meaning of the words(of similar status to the witness).


And the testimony of the single upright witness or one whose situation is
unknown, is accepted even if such a person is a female, slave, or one who has
repented after being punished for accusing others of sexual acts. And it is not a
condition for such a person to utter the words of the shahada as to what he
witnessed(which is "I bear witness that.")and neither is it conditional for one to
be subjected to legal proceedings or commissions. We therefore accept his news
without legal proceedings, or commissions, because he is informing about
something, he is not giving legal testimony in court."[Al-Hidayah states: The
imam is to accept the testimony of a single person who is in possession of moral
probity, for the sighting of the moon, whether such person is a man or woman, a
free man or a slave]. Furthermore, if one sees the moon, he is required to inform
about this in-front of the judge in the same night if he is in the city. If he resides in
a small town(and is an upright person), then he is to inform about it between the
people regarding what he saw or do so in the mosque and they are to fast
according to his testimony."


S٢٩ > SN on op lg had De ol IL ol٥ ٣ Jha Jd bt
If the sky is obstructed for Eid al-Fitr, it is conditional for the imam to have the
testimony from two free men or from one free man and two free women and it is
conditional that they say the words of the shahada(when they inform about what


they witnessed, such as "/ bear witness.")though they are not to be subject to legal
proceedings or commissions.





" Hence, the news of the sighting is accepted without commissions where the judge presides
over the case hearing arguments and counter claims and so forth. Such a thing is not stipulated.
Furthermore, such legal proceedings or commissions are also not stipulated in other matters of
law, such as the freeing of a slave.

? Maraky al-Falah ٣٦٩.

