BOOK II: PRAYER ١٩١


It is disliked to tuck up clothes under the right armpit and fling the sides of the
clothes over the left shoulder or vice versa, for the reason that it is desirable for
both shoulders to be covered and because one will be preoccupied with tucking
up the clothes.


ell Je Bn J aol yall,
Reciting Quran in a state other than standing is disliked, such as to finish reciting
the Quran in the bowing posture.
Eset § Js Gas NU],
To lengthen the first rak'ah in a voluntary prayer is disliked.
cl gliall ee J Ly fe S٥١ fe gai


Lengthening the second rak'ah over the first one in all prayers, be they obligatory
or voluntary, is disliked.


UF Al cpp taal y ٤٠S)S٣٥ SI Sy
Repeating the same surah in one rak'ah of an obligatory prayer is disapproved.
The same applies to one who repeats the same surah in both the rak'ahs provided
he does so intentionally and is able to recite another surah from memory. If


however, one does not know another surah, then it is wajib for him to read it so
that he fulfils the requirement of joining another surah to the Fatiha."
Ul Jl Gy ٨p tel By

It is disliked to recite a surah and then reverse the order of Quran by reciting
another surah which precedes the one previously read. This means, it is sunna for
the individual to read the Quran in its order of placement, and the first surah
after the Fatiha is the a/-Bagarah and the last is an-Nas. Accordingly, if one reads a
surah which comes before the one previously read, it is disliked because Ibn
Mas'ud((God be pleased with him))said[Whoever recites the Quran in reverse,


then he is in reverse]."
٠S)GALS iy gy Ce iy ya ahaa


It is disliked to recite a surah, then skip the next surah, and instead recite the one
that comes after that. For example; to recite surah al-Ikhlas in the first rak'ah and
then recite surah an-Nas in the second thereby skipping surah al-Falaq.


wok oy


Intentionally smelling perfume is not from the actions of prayer and is contrary to
the nature of prayer, which is focus and concentration.


" Maraky al-Falah ١٩٩.
? AbBaihagi ٢/٤٣٣.

