١٦٦ BOOK II: PRAYER


٦- It is conditional to be free from excuses such as: a)a perpetual nose bleed,
b)stuttering with letters(usually with the letter f), c)mumbling or muttering in
one's speech which usually entails repetition of the letter ٤', d)lisping, which is,
not pronouncing the letters correctly, such as pronouncing the 'sin' as a 'tha' or the
'a' as a 'ghain', and in this situation it is not valid for others to pray behind him
unless those behind him suffer from the same problem.!


٣)fury dylghS b ١٣,


Likewise, one's position as imam is invalid if he is missing a condition such as the
absence of purity or exposure of one's nakedness[awrah]. It is not valid for the
imam to be naked whilst those behind him are clothed.


olay inno by


Conditions That Validate The Following Of The Imam
eat pte in | olUS Vi ine by Sy
The conditions that validate the following are fourteen
diay ped B ylis Sy lll gucall ٤٣


The follower is to make his intention to follow the imam at the opening Allahu
akbar. Note: joining the intention to the saying of Allahu akbar is of two types; the
first is the real or true joining[hagigiyya]and the second is the legal[Aukmiyya}joining. The hagigiyya is to intend in one's heart together with the saying of the
opening Allahu akbar. As for the Aukmiyya, it is to intend and then shortly after
that say, 'Allahu akbar' without a long gap between them. Both are deemed
correct in the Hanafi Madhhab with Imam Shafi'i maintaining that it is a
stipulation that the link be true[hagigiyya].? Note: one must also intend the prayer
in his intention. See The Conditions of Prayer in the earlier chapter.


a cL olidlind b UL fo Jas,


If there are females who wish to join the group prayer, the male imam must
intend being their imam so that their following of him is valid. If he does not,
then their following will not be correct.


pelt ٣٦ ate PLY pass


The heel of the imam is to be in front of the heel of the follower, otherwise the
follower's prayer is invalid.


" Nur alldah ٨٧.
? Maraky al-Falah ١٢٦.


BOOK Ii: PRAYER ١٦٧


The imam must not be in a lesser state than the one following him, such as the
imam praying a voluntary prayer while the follower is offering an obligatory one


or the imam is praying while suffering from a chronic disorder, yet the follower is
free from illness.


٤ ٣ pols ٣ Lae PLO S Vy


It is conditional that the obligatory prayer of the imam not be different to the
obligatory prayer of the follower. This means that both must be praying the same
obligatory prayer because the follower is in partnership with the imam and there
must be unity so that the prayer of the imam is joined to the prayer of the
follower. According the Imam Shafi', it is valid if they are different.


Syme Vy Keb)DCIS dey SLL LH OS VI,


It is not valid for a traveller who is shortening prayer to pray behind a resident
imam who is praying the full number of a four rak'ah prayer after its time has
ended; meaning, when the time of a four rak'ah obligatory prayer has expired, a
traveller cannot pray behind a resident imam who is performing it at such time.
And neither can a latecomer to the congregational prayer be an imam for anyone
else. Consider the following: when a person who arrived late to the prayer stands
to make up what he missed, no one can come and join him, and if someone does,
the following is invalid."


HL oy ie g pally PLY oy raw Vy


A row of women must rot divide the imam and the male followers; otherwise the
following is not correct. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said{If there is between the imam and himself, a river, or road or a row of women,
there is no prayer for him].?


dell ٤d oF Gb Vy dr٩ ٣٤٣ per oe at Wy


A river large enough for a boat to pass through is not to divide one from his
imam and neither are they to be separated by a road which a cart could pas:
through.


ceed Slat Y ere ٥٥ sl pl ate dO PLY OVUEIL pall dns anty baile Vy


The imam and follower must not be separated by a wall in which the followei
does not know the changing actions of the imam due to sayings resembling eact
other. If there is no confusion with respect to hearing or seeing the imam, ther
the following is valid according to the most correct view. It is reported that t Ih
Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))would pray in the room of A'ishal
and the people in the mosque would be praying that same prayer behind him.'


" Maraky al-Falah ١٦٧, pt ٧.
? Abi Shaybah, ٢/٣٥.
* Abu Dawud ١١٢١. Al-Baihaqi ٣/١٠٩.

