BOOK IV: FASTING ٣٥٧


ial
The Traveller
Of RAEN GS Re Vy opp plas acltdy Ue SG ge pay dol mT anpo ys ball SLU,
dela Aas)ys oped Las YE +p dade gl nS Are | pls


The traveller is legally permitted to break his fast. However, to fast is better
provided it will not harm him and provided that most of his companions
accompanying him are also fasting and that each person is funding his own
expenses separately, though if they are sharing the expenses of the travel or are
not fasting, then it is better to break the fast and be in accordance with the group.
In any case, the traveller is permitted to break his fast opting instead to make up
the day at a more convenient time. Allah says[If anyone is ill or on a journey, the
prescribed number should be made up from later days]."


ade HS Ylry« phil ١٥)pydall be CEL
What Is And Is Not Required Of A Person Who Breaks Fast Due To An Excuse
PAG[So yrs pir y ٢ pero nde Sly)PSL oy fe Lawl V,


If a person dies before his excuse ends such as illness and travel, he is not
required to make a will instructing his heirs, to redeem the days he lost. The
reason is due to his excuse which remains. For example, a sick person who dies
before regaining sound health is under no obligation to make a will for the days


he lost because his excuse remains. Note; a missed fast is redeemed by paying the
fidya(fee).(iS pe)HUY Ad CLs aged lps J Ooty)Slaad Lely pad Ll pad(GIS ٣١ ٠!)(٢ hl ee)dona
And if one finds other days in which he can make up the missed days, then he
must do so(when he regains sound health or after becoming a resident). If
however, he does not make up the days, then he is required to leave a will
instructing his heirs to redeem the days he was healthy for or the days he was a
resident for(that is, the days he was able to make up but did not). Consider the
following: Person 'X' fell ill for ١٥ days of Ramadan. Thereafter, he recovered for
ten days and then died. Prior to death, this person must make a will instructing
his family to make up only ten days of fasting for him because he was only fit and
able for ten days and they are the days that he is responsible for. The other five
days are not required because, a)he did not find other days in which he could
make up the lost ones; and b)because he had only recovered for ten days. Hence,
one is responsible for the days he had the ability to fast but did not. In the event





" Quran ٢:١٨٤.

