BOOK II: PRAYER ٢٦٩


It is recommended to perform the dawn prayer in the local mosque in order to
fulfil its right, and then to proceed towards the area of the Eid prayer walking and
uttering the éakbir silently. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))used
to go for Eid prayer walking on foot." And Ali((God be pleased with him))is
reported to have said[It is a sunna to go on foot to the Eid prayer].? The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said[The best remembrance is the one
performed silently].' And upon reaching the destination of prayer, one is to stop
uttering the takbir according to one narration. Though according to another
narration, one is to cease the 'akbir when the Eid prayer begins.


FP Sb eras


One is to return from the mosque via a different road. This is the recommended
practice. The Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))went out by one road
on the day of Eid and returned by another.' One reason for this is that both roads
will bear witness on the Day of Judgement.


cody hall Gall Le L٥ fice Sy


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer at the prayer-site of Eid prior to the Eid
prayer, a position that is agreed upon; and it is disliked at home before the Eid
prayer according to the majority of Hanafi scholars. Ibn Abbas((God be pleased
with him))is reported to have said that Allah's Messenger went out and led the
people in the Eid prayer observing no prayer before it or after it.°


dott! bt! Jes aii ual Gite,


It is disliked to offer voluntary prayer at the prayer-site after the Eid prayer, this
applies only to the prayer-site of Eid, and this is the preferred view according to
the majority of the scholars, due to the saying of Abu Sa'id al-Khudri((God be
pleased with him))who reported that Allah"s Messenger((God bless him and give
him peace))did not offer prayer before the Eid prayer. As he returned to his
house, he would perform two rak'ahs." It is therefore not disliked to perform
voluntary prayer at home after the Eid prayer in accordance with the hadith.'


" Ibn Majah ١٢٩٧

? Tbn Majah ١٢٩٦.

٣ Ahmad ١/١٧٢

* Abu Dawud ١١٥٢

٥ Bukhari, Muslim and Ibn Majah ١٢٩١
° Tbn Majah ١٢٩٣.

* Maraky al-Falah ٣٠٧.

