٦٤ BOOK I: PURIFICATION


Leto paUlall fo date Lil Jog Mlares Sy Kare er yi


٩/ Sleeping in a firm manner is not an annulling factor, even if one is leaning on a
support, where he will fall over if it is removed; and this is the soundest view in
the school of Abu Hanifa with respect to this ruling and the ruling in point eight.
The description of this posture is to sleep seated upright while the buttocks are
firmly positioned on the ground.


Bll ily LI age fe tale LST, gly frase gis


١٠/ Sleeping in prayer(does not break ablution)even if one sleeps during bowing and
prostration provided the person maintains his posture according to the sunna.
However, if one's posture is no longer according to the sunna, such as one's arm
collapsing upon the rib area and ground, the wudu is invalid. The Prophet((God
bless him and grant him peace))said[Ablution is not compulsory on one who
sleeps sitting or standing or prostrating until he falls on his side]." Therefore, if
one falls on his side, relaxation of his joints has occurred thus rendering the wudu
void. The same rule applies outside of prayer; that is, wudu remains sound if one
falls asleep in these postures.'


SLY Coy bed fuai


That Which Obligates The Major Bath(Ghusl)tlatl dae yo tely Jail ٢ pay
The major bath is compulsory if one of the following occurs:
CU ae et bythe de oe adil IS]atl pale S! dll cy >


١- The discharge of sperm to the surface of the body obligates the major bath
provided it separates from its location due to sexual arousal, not sexual
intercourse. This can occur due to a sexual dream or fantasizing, and applies to
both male and female. If however, one is struck in the back and consequently
discharges sperm, he is not required to perform the major bath because it was not
due to sexual arousal. According to Shafi'i, the emergence of seminal fluid, in
whatever way this occurs, leads to the obligation of bathing due to the saying of
the Prophet(Water is from water]; that is, bathing is due to the discharge of
semen.' The Hanafi proof is that purification is invoked by sexual impurity{janaba| and sexual impurity is the ejaculation of semen through sexual desire.
The hadith mentioned by the Prophet that "Water is from water," is interpreted to
mean ejaculation by way of sexual desire.


" At-Tirmidhi and al-Bayhaqi.
* Maraky al-Falah ٥٨.
* Al-Hidaya ٢١.


ea en BOOK I: PURIFICATION ٦٥


Maraky al-Falah states. the Hanafi school maintains that it is conditional for sexual
desire to be present when the seminal fluid separates from its location, though it is
not conditional that the sexual desire persist until the fluid exits the body,
contrary to Abu Yusuf(who maintained it is conditional for the desire to be present when
the seminal fluid exits the body). Therefore, according to Abu Hanifa anc
Muhammad, this means that if one holds or squeezes his penis until the a
desire subsides and fades away, and then some time after this — seminal fluid
comes out, then one is required to undertake the major bath, though Abu Yusuf
says that he is not required to do so; and the legal ruling[fatwa]is in accordance
with Abu Yusuf's view.!


Equally, if one has a bath after which the rest of the seminal fluid exits before one
has urinated, slept or walked many steps, then one is required to perform the
major bath again according to Abu Hanifa and Muhammad, contrary to ne
Yusuf(zwho maintains that it must exit the body with sexual desire present at such time). If
however, the seminal fluid exits after urinating and after one's penis comes ٩ bak
or after sleeping or walking many steps, then the bath is not required again, an
issue they agreed upon."

el ee tel dpe phe cy oi eee Sly
٢- If the head of the penis disappears in one of the passages of a living oe
being(vagina or anus); the major bath becomes compulsory on both persons. Ant
the size of the head is from the section that was removed in circumcision(i.e. it is
the head of a living man's penis). The Prophet((God bless him and give =
peace))said[When the private parts[of the male and female]cohabit with eac
other and the penis disappears in the vagina, bathing becomes obligatory(for
both the male and female)].* The Prophet also said[When the private parts mee
and the penis disappears, bathing becomes obligatory irrespective of discharge].


dace glee eb y Hes
٣- The discharge of sperm due to intercourse with a dead person or animal


obligates the major bath. Note: if no sperm is discharged, one is not required to
observe the major bath because the desire was one sided.


esl fs! ae ٠٥٣ Ke d lle gl tu Gd eb ٢٩٧٩٩
٤ - If a person after waking up finds the presence of thin liquid(and yea
remember a dream); the major bath is obligatory provided his penis was not erec


before sleeping. If, on the other hand, the penis was erect prior to sleeping, it is in
all likelihood madhi, and madhi does not require the major bath.


" Maraky al-Falah ٥٩-٦٠. ek

* Maraky al-Falah ٥٩-٦٠ | Radd al-Muhtar vol, ١/٢٩٧ - Third Edition, Dar al-Kutub al"Ilmiyya.

*Tbn Majah ٦١١.

' Al-Ikhtiyar ٢٠ / Al-Bayhagqi in Sunan al-Kubra ١/١٤١. ٢٣s,

, . i cur, they rarely do and it is
Note: although such unlawful and offensive acts may never occur, they y

the duty of a jurist to provide a solution.

