٢٠٨ BOOK II: PRAYER


the greeting prayer(tahiyya]; rather one is to offer tasbth, tahlil and send blessing
upon the Prophet in order to fulfil its rights."'


Ye Spy ٢ wll oll,


Performing the obligatory prayer is a substitute for the greeting prayer[tahiyyasl.
Ibn Abidin states: "The reality is that what is required from the one entering the
masjid is the performance of prayer in it - so that the prayer is a greeting to the
Lord. The most evident view is that one's entry into the masjid with the intention
to offer the obligatory prayer as imam, or to pray alone or as a follower(all)serve
as a substitute for the éahiyya - provided one prays upon entry into the masjid. If
one"s entry into the masjid is for the obligatory prayer, though the prayer has time
before commencing, one is required to offer the greeting prayer[tahtyya]prior to
sitting. Likewise, if one enters the masjid for something other than prayer, such as
a lesson, or remembrance of God, then the /ahiyya is required prior to sitting.""
Shurunbulali states in Maraky al-Falah: According to the Hanafi Madhhab, the
tahiyyah is not excused even if one sits before praying, though it is recommended
Prior to sitting. And if a person repeats his entry of the masjid, then two rak'ahs
suffice for the day."


dol ٥ HJ wl ce LIST ds Sy


Likewise, performing any prayer upon entering the mosque serves as a substitute
for the greeting prayer even if one does not intend the greeting prayer.


ad Lar[٥ ٦ ٢ g/l de OLAS ٣ Os


It is recommended for one to pray two rak'ahs after ablution before the water on
the body dries. The Prophet((God bless him and grant him peace))said[There is
no Muslim, who performs ablution perfectly and then offers two rak'ahs receiving
them with his heart and mind, but that Paradise would be obligatory for him]."


wall Juels a ly


Equally, it is recommended to pray four rak'aks or more for the midmorning
prayer[duha]. Its time is when the sun completely rises to the period before its
zenith. A'ishah((God be pleased with her))reported that the Prophet((God bless
him and give him peace))would observe the midmorning prayer as four rak'ahs
and would increase as he pleased."


aU! a٢ ٩ sy VI avy sae owe Wy


It is recommended to offer the night vigil prayers, the guidance prayer, and the
prayer of need. Regarding the night vigil prayer, it is preferable to offer this prayer in





" Radd al-Muhtar vol. ١/٤٥٨ | Maraky al-Falah ٢٣١.
* Radd al-Muhtar vol. ٢/٤٥٨.

* Maraky al-Falah ٢٣١.

Muslim ٢٣٤.

° Muslim ٧١٩.


BOOK Il: PRAYER ٢٠٩


the last third of the night. And the minimum recommended number to pray is
eight rak'ahs. However, the saying that this prayer is recommended is the legal
status of night prayer, wherein reality, it is an emphasized sunna in the sense that
the Prophet never failed to perform them except on a rare occasion. As for the
guidance prayer |istikhara], Jabir relates that[The Prophet((God bless him and give
him peace))used to teach us the guidance prayer for all matters, as he would a
surah of the Quran]. Lexically, Istikhara means; the request of that which is good.
A person performs the prayer when he has resolved to undertake an act, during
which he asks Allah to guide him in relation to the thing requested to that which
is good and beneficial for him in his religion, life, and hereafter. The guidance
prayer therefore pertains to future matters. And concerning the prayer of need,
Abdullah Ibn Abi 'Aufa al-Aslami((God be pleased with him))is reported to have
said, "Allah's Messenger came out to us and then said, 'If anyone's need rests with
Allah or with any of His creatures, he should perform ablution and pray two
rak'ahs.'"" The prayer of need is undertaken due to a matter which has befallen a
person and he therefore asks Allah to repel that which he dislikes, or he asks
Allah to provide him with what he seeks.


cdl ald cba L, Olay ye eV all IU ebe]Oa,


It is recommended to stay up in worship in the last ten nights of Ramadan and
the two nights of Eid, as the hadith mentions[Whomever passes the night of Eid,
Allah will preserve his heart on a day when his heart will die].'


intl go © Sus


It is recommended to stay up in worship in the first ten nights of the month of
Dhu al-Hijjah, as the Prophet((God bless him and give him peace))said "No day,
of the days of the world is best in the sight of Allah, on which He is worshipped
than(the worship)of the ten days. And the fast of one day during these days is
equivalent in reward to the fasts of a year and(the worship)of these nights is
equivalent to the night of qadr.""


Ohes cp weasid,


In the middle of the month of Sha'ban, it is recommended to spend the night in
worship because it expiates the sins of the whole year. The night of Friday
expiates the sins of the week, and the night of qadr expiates the sins of one's life."
Ali Ibn Abi Talib((God be pleased with him))reported that Allah's Messenger(God bless him and give him peace)said[If the night of the middle of Sha'ban
arrives, you should offer prayer during the night and fast during the day].'


" Tbn Majah ١٣٨٤.
? Haythami ٢/١٩٨.
٣ Ibn Majah ١٧٢٨.
* Maraky al Falah ٢٣٥.
> Ibn Majah ١٣٨٨.

